People don't remember books, they remember
sentences. When you told me that, and I remember

you did tell me that, I was like, that's it.
So much of good writing is not what you say,

it's how you say it. Everywhere you look,
it's best story wins. It's not the best idea,

it's not the right answer, it's the best story.
Gets people nodding their heads. Are there

mantras that you think about as you're trying
to write a story? Leave out the parts that

readers tend to skip. It's a tongue in cheek
quote, but it's like, it's so true. When you're

writing, you should pretend that every word
costs you a hundred dollars. Oh, that's right.

And when you're doing that, you'll be like,
do I need this word? Do I need this sentence?

The major lesson of doing this podcast so
far has just been everything works, but you

need to just be really, really, really, really,
really good at whatever it is that you do.

How has your writing changed since you moved
here? My writing hasn't changed at all in

17 years. Nothing. Nothing. I don't want,
and I think that's, and it's not to say that

there's no improvement, but I don't want to
be like, this was one of the lessons for when

I started writing Psychology of Money. I wanted
to like reinvent myself.

And I was like, oh, like I always write blog
posts, but now I got to write a book with

a capital B. Yeah. And I got to write long
chapters. And I had no experience doing that.

And I shouldn't have just pretended that that
was the same thing as blogging. Right. Because

it's not. It's a totally different thing.
So then I just owned, like, I'm a blogger.

And I'm, I have a skill at writing 1500 word
blog posts. And I'm not going to try to break

that. I'm just going to own that in the book.
So they're going to be short chapters. They're

going to be blog length chapters. Like each
chapter is a long blog. Yeah. That's kind

of how I feel about it.
That also made the process more digestible.

Because if you sit down and you're like, I'm
going to write a 75, 000 word book. It's really

daunting if you think about it like that.
But if you're like, okay, I need 20 long blog

posts, even if it's the same thing, it's a
lot more digested. It's you look at it and

you're like, okay, I can do this.
I can tackle, I can knock that out. Are there

writers who have done a good job transitioning
formats like that? Because even Seth Godin,

Seth Godin has an amazing blog, but his books
are these mini blogs, just like what he writes

every day. It's like people have these lanes
and they get really good at They have their

hammer, and they get good at looking for the,
for those sorts of nails, and then their books

are exactly what they write normally.
I'm trying to think of someone who can, who

has really done both. And a lot of the really
good book authors, Bethany McLean, Michael

Lewis, all those people, a lot of times they
write for magazines. Both those authors I

mentioned have written for Vanity Fair. Yep.
And when they write a magazine piece, It's

a book chapter.
It's a long book chapter and in fact several

Michael Lewis books like Boomerang have been
based off of Vanity Fair pieces that he wrote.

So even those people who are like, oh, they
write books and they write online It's actually

like what they're writing online is kind of
very similar to what they would write in the

book It's just online you get one chapter
and a book is ten of them and so I'm trying

to think of people who have you know, who
can write really good 400 word blog posts

and And a great 75, 000 word book in a long
form book format.

I'm sure they exist, but I actually think
it's great that people kind of own what they

do. Um, remember 10, 15 years ago when Joe
Weisenthal was writing a lot at Business Insider,

he was literally doing 10 blog posts a day.
And his blog posts would be a chart and three

sentences. And that was his, that was, that
would be his blog post.

And he was, he was the best in the world at
that. And like, could Joe write a 75, 000

word book? Probably. And it would probably
be great. But I think so many people just

own that format. Like, what are you good at?
Just do that. And don't pretend like you have

to be somebody else. Have there been moments
in your career where you feel like you've...

You've wanted to be somebody else, you've
tried to be somebody else, and you've said

I'm not that person, I'm not going to do that
anymore. I tried it with Psychology of Money.

When I set out to write Psychology of Money,
I said I'm going to write a new book from

scratch. It's going to be 10 chapters, each
chapter is going to be 6, 000 words.

That's what I set out to write, which would
be a pretty normal, structured, long, uh,

non fiction book. And I started writing it,
and I wrote two shitty chapters. Neither of

which made it into the book. They were both
6, 000 words. And I sent it to a couple friends

of mine whose opinions I really value. And
all of them independently, and I'm glad they

did this, they wrote back and they said, What
is this?

This is not you. Who wrote this? This is not
good at all. And it was because I had gained,

what I liked doing, was writing a 1500 word
blog. And you can think in your mind, Okay,

I'm good at 1, 500 word blogs. I'm just going
to start doing 6, 000 word chapters, and you

can think like, oh, how hard can it be? It's
a completely different thing.

Completely different. It's the equivalent
of like, you're really skilled at jazz music,

and then you're like, I could do heavy metal.
It's music. It's the same thing, right? Like,

that's so different. So when I tried to do
that, it was, and what I did is pretty foreseeable.

I just rambled. And rambled and rambled and
rambled and rambled.

And I was like, I gotta get to 6, 000 words.
Throw in a couple more examples. Throw in

a couple more stories. How can I just extend
this idea? And so in the end, it was, you

know, what I was really wanted to do is just
be like, what's the point that I'm trying

to make in that chapter? Make that point,
wrap it up, move to the next chapter.

Wait, but explain this to me. How about how
all this happened in Psychology of Money,

which are both longer pieces. What happens
there? Is it that they're, that idea, a long

idea is now ready and you can just go there?
And sometimes you can do that, but now when

you need to write like 12 of those, that's
when it really breaks down?

Well, the blog post Psychology of Money, that
was, that was the origin of the book. It was

like 10, 000 words, right? But yes, and it
was broken up into nine, I think it was 19.

Little segments in the blog post, how this
all happened, which is kind of about, it's

just, I think it's 6, 000 words on the history
of the U S economy that was all broken up

into about 10 different time periods.
So even within that blog, there's like 10

mini blogs within there, the psychology of
money blog post. I, that too was kind of based

off of, I was like, okay, what articles have
I written in the past? How can I basically

condense those points? So each, each point
would have been about 500 words, something

like that.
And so, so even when it is a long form. It's

very, it's broken up into little bits. How
about in the piece that you wrote about your

friend who passed, uh, the one when you were
skiing, that one was a little bit different.

That was probably about 3, 000 words or so,
so it's not that long. And since that was

a very clear, there's one story to tell, uh,
you know, that, that came out a little bit

more, but even within that, thinking about
it, that's really broken up into three pieces.

It's like, here's our background, here's what
happened during the avalanche, and here's

what I learned from it. And it's like three
distinct sections. Yeah. In terms of writing

really good stories, is that something that
you've worked on? Is that something that you

feel is just very intuitive? I'm sure you're
thinking about it all the time, but how have

you gone about improving that?
I think it was, it was, you know, if you write

online, the, the hardest part and the best
part is that if you write something bad, People

will tell you in no uncertain terms how bad
it was. Like the feedback, you, you need a

thick skin, but if, but the feedback is so
great that you are constantly learning. So

if you're publishing every day and you're
getting feedback on that every day, and you

do that for years or decades, you'll, you
are forced to see what works and what doesn't

work.
And so I, you know, if you were, I, I've always

been a finance writer and particularly back
in the day, I was very much, I was writing

about the stock market every day. This was
Motley Fool. Yes. Three, three articles a

day. That's like. What's 700 a year? Uh, I
think I was in the Mollie Fool for nine years

and I wrote 3, 500 articles when I was there.
So whatever that works out to, it was a lot

and getting, and getting critical feedback
by hundreds of readers on every single one

of them. And I realized that if you want to
stick out as a writer, it's competitive. There's

a lot of other writers out there writing about
finance, that if you are just writing.

As a data person, you're, you're not, you're,
you're, you're never going to stick out. If

you write, Oh, the Dow went up a hundred points
and here's the stock, you're, you're never

going to stick out. There's 10, 000 other
people doing that. So it's like, okay, well,

if you can tell a story about finance, you
might actually stick out a little bit because

a lot of the other data writing was.
Boring too. It's just like charts and numbers

and it's just not really, but if you can tell
a story, that's how you stick out in finance.

So I started realizing like that's, that's
the way to survive as a writer. If I want

to, it was never about like, how can I get
better? It was literally just like, how can

I keep my job?
How can I survive as a writer that I need

to start telling stories about things. And
I also thought it was just more interesting

for me. I enjoyed it more. I was not going
to enjoy a job where I just woke up and just

lived inside of Excel and dumped charts on
the page. But if I could get in the minds

of people.
Then I was really excited. And from a investing

perspective, I was never that interested in
picking stocks. I was never interested in

doing, you know, uh, discounted cashflow analysis.
I just wanted to figure out what was going

on inside of people's heads. It was just like,
how are you, like, what are you thinking?

How are you making decisions? And so that
lent itself to telling stories versus doing

analysis. So it was those two things. It was
just more interesting. And I thought it was

a way to survive as a writer. Did you, Read
and write a lot as a kid? Virtually zero.

So when did that change? Well, I started as
a writer for The Motley Fool out of desperation.

This is 2008. Yeah, I started technically
in 2007, but the economy was already starting

to crack by then. Got it. And so if you were
a finance major, if you're looking for a job

in an investment bank, forget about it. By
summer of 2007, everything was shutting down.

I was interning for a private equity firm
in summer 2007, and everything started cracking.

Cracking, which in hindsight, we didn't know
at the time, but in hindsight, that was like

the preamble of the financial crisis in 2007.
So I needed a job and, um, in 2007 and virtually

no one was hiring. And I had a friend at the
time who was a writer for the Motley Fool.

And he said, Hey, you're looking for a job.
You're interested in investing. Like they'll

do it. And I remember thinking, Hey, it was,
I don't believe this anymore, but at the time

I really felt like it was. Humiliating that
like I'm, I'm a writer, I want to be a hedge

fund manager and now I'm a journalist. It
was, I, I really viewed it as like, ah, this

is like, I don't know how this feels, but
I need a job.

So I thought, okay, I'll do this for six months
until I can find a job at a hedge fund, become

a trader at a hedge fund. But I, I, I didn't,
and it was, it was not enjoyable at first.

It felt the first year felt just like a job.
Like I'm just doing this for a paycheck. I

can crank out a couple of words, but then
I started really enjoying it.

I think it was once I started telling stories.
Versus like, let me just do some analysis

about the stock. Once I started telling stories,
I was like, Oh, this is kind of fun. Actually,

I kind of enjoy it. And then I really started
enjoying it. It took probably five years before

it was like. Oh, this is what I do.
This is not just a, you know, a temporary

stop until I find another career. This is
what I'm going to do. That probably took five

years. Was there like a post, a comment, a
moment where you were like, I got game? Um,

my very first, I had been at the Molly Fool
for like a month at this point and it's late

2007 and I wrote an article and I'm so embarrassed
to say this because I would never use this

title anymore.
The article is titled the impending destruction

of the US economy, which at the time, I think
at the time, I honestly didn't know how much,

how many people were reading. I didn't really
think about that. That kind of headline is

going to get people's attention, but it was
late 2007. So the economy hadn't collapsed

yet, but it was definitely starting to weaken.
So I think that got to a lot of people, a

lot of people were like, yes, that's how I
feel too. But, um, and in hindsight, actually,

I think my analysis was totally wrong. Like
the economy did collapse one year later, but

not for the, like, not for the reasons that
I'd, that I foresaw, but that was the one,

it got a lot of attention and other press
outlets picked it up and stuff.

And I'd been there for a month. So that was
kind of a point where I was like, oh, this

actually is. It's kind of neat. I'm not just
writing into an echo chamber here. Yeah. And

as you were getting started in your writing,
who were you looking up to? I think the honest

answer is during that first year, nobody.
You just needed to get stuff done. I just

needed, I just needed a job. I needed to work.
It was not like, oh, cause like I said, I

was not a reader or a writer during that,
but definitely not. I was an economics major

in college, which is just like, as long as
you can write your name on the top of the

test, that's all they ask out of you.
So I'd really never written anything when

I started as a writer for The Motley Fool.
And I remember my mom, who's been so supportive

of everything in my life, I called her and
I said, Oh mom, I got a job as a writer. And

she went. Morgan, like, do you, do you know
how to write? Like, what are, like, what are

you doing here?
And I remember being so disappointed. I remember

just being like, oh, you're, because she was
right. It's like I really had no, no business

doing it. Um, so I really didn't have any
writing heroes that I looked up to. Because

I would casually read here and there, but
really not that much. I, I do now, but when

I started I was not much of a reader either.
How do you read now? I read a lot less than

I used to. I definitely went through a period.
Five or ten years ago where I was like reading

for sport. It was just like how many books
can I read per month? Yeah, and it was just

a game and I think I liked telling people.
Oh, I read nine books last month But then

you look back and you're like you're just
doing it for the numbers Because when you

blow through books that quickly, you're not
thinking about it You're not reading a book

and then like, you know, meditating on what
you've just read and thinking about the points.

You're not stopping a chapter and being like,
oh, how does that apply to me? You're just

like, how can I get through it as fast as
I can? So I stopped doing that. So now I read

maybe one, sometimes two books a month. But
I read intentionally slower and a lot of times

I'll read a chapter or even I'll read a paragraph
and I'll be, I'll stop and be like, ah, let

me think about that.
Is that true? Yeah, I think it's true. How

does that apply to other people? Oh, I think
that reminds me of this other thing. It's

funny. I've gone through the same transition.
I feel like also early when you haven't read

a lot, you're just getting started. A book
can just shake your world view, you know,

it's quake books, people call them.
And like, I remember I read Marshall McLuhan's

Understanding Media, and I was like, Oh my
goodness, this is an entirely new way to think,

and then I sort of read all around it, and
I feel like I spent five to eight years just

reading and reading and reading, and just
basically building up the receptors in my

brain for new information.
But then I kind of got to a place where it's

like, I don't really need new receptors. I
sort of know what I'm doing with my career,

I know what my interests are, and now I'm
just kind of slowly trying to take one aspect

of my worldview and really deepen it, another
aspect of my worldview and really deepen it.

And now I just, I don't read for sport anymore
at all, but I used to do like an entire Saturday

Sunday where I'd do like an audiobook. Read
most of one. I would read another hardcover,

and it was like just like what you said It
was like I got my gym routine. I got my reading

routine, and I'm gonna be disciplined and
dedicated about this I remember I remember

I read I heard one time that when Bill Clinton
was in college There was one summer where

he read a book a day for the entire summer
Geez, I never really thinking that I'm being

like god.
That's amazing. That's why he's so smart That's

why he's like so and now I look back at it,
and it's like no That's that's reading for

sport and I guarantee you He didn't learn
that much that summer. That's the irony of

it. But I don't regret it. I think it's good
to go through that. And maybe that process,

because I think a lot of people do that in
their like early to mid twenties, the reading

for sport period.
And actually what might be happening is you're

like training yourself to read. I think so.
I think that's what it is. So now that I read

much slower, but I think you pick up some
reading skills when you just get, just bury

yourself in the words. I think you also, I
mean I remember I had an internship In college

at this company called skiff, there was a
travel news and data company.

And I had been in university and my university
wasn't super rigorous. And now I'm in New

York city in Manhattan at like a real startup.
And I just realized. In that summer that I

knew nothing. I say that with no humility
at all. Like I just knew nothing. I had nothing

to value. Or nothing to offer the world.
I had nothing of value to give. I just didn't

know anything. And so I remember coming back
to school and I found Stratechery, I found

Keith Rabois stuff. I found Marc Andreessen.
I was like, okay, I'm going to learn all about

startups. And I just read and I read and I
read. And I feel like I had to go through

this explore exploit type thing.
Where I had to figure out, okay, what am I

even interested in? And so a lot of the reading
maybe wasn't about learning stuff, but just

trying to figure out what do I want to be
reading in the future. And now I feel like

I can walk into a bookstore and just say,
okay, I know exactly what sections I like,

I know exactly what authors I'm looking for,
and I know exactly these little circles of

interest for me.
I feel like, too, another skill that I picked

up from that is just being able to skim a
little bit more effectively. So there's a

lot of times, even the great books that I
really love, sometimes you're reading, even

sometimes an entire chapter and just be like,
this isn't working for me. Let's move on to

the next.
But even within a chapter, you can be reading

and you just kind of tell like, uh, that paragraph's
not relevant. Ooh, this is a good one. Just

kind of skimming like that. And I think that's
an important skill that you pick up during

that period. How did you find Frederick Lewis
Allen's work and how has it impacted you?

I don't know where I first heard of Frederick
Lewis Allen. I don't, I can't think of the

moment when it was because he's pretty obscure.
Yeah. He was a, he was a historian, did most

of his writing. in the 1930s through 1950s.
And he's my favorite historian and one of

my favorite writers. He wrote three books.
One is, one is on the 1920s, one's on the

1930s, and one is How America Changed from
1900 to 1950. Yeah. Uh, he's just so good.

What I think, what I really love about him
is that most historians, almost all historians,

Write about the big figures, the presidents,
the generals, the entrepreneurs. Frederick

Louis Allen writes about average people.
He's just like, what was life like for the

average middle class American in the 1920s?
And it's just so, you can just relate to it

so much better than if you're reading about
Winston Churchill or something. Right. That's

what he's so good about. And, um, a lot of
that historic writing, even if we're talking

a hundred years ago, like not that long ago.
A lot of it's hard to read, it's dense, it's

very formal, it's, but Frederick Louis Allen
is like a, a chatty writer. You feel like

it's easy to read. I feel like in 1930, he
was writing like somebody would write in the

2010s, which is pretty rare. A lot of those
books, you're like, Oh, this, this book written

in 1920, even if it's a famous writer.
Ernest Hemingway or something. You pick it

up and you're like, this is just not how people
write anymore. It's, it's good in its own

way, but Frederick Lewis Allen is just very
readable, which is so rare for that period.

Is he a good storyteller or was it more the
data and the facts? It's both. It's both.

He gets these data and facts about what life
was like back then, but it's, it's easy to

read.
I'll tell you the opposite of that. If anyone

has ever read, read John Maynard Keynes, you
can't, you can't do it. You try to read one

paragraph and you're like, uh, my, uh, I've
no, I read, I understand what these, like,

I know what that word is, but I have no idea
what you're saying here. It's not readable

at all.
Frederick Lewis Allen was the opposite of

that. One of the coolest things that I remember
is we were talking at this point, half a decade

ago, and we were talking about something that
was going on with how unemployment rates were

calculated in America. You were just like,
dude, just go on the St. Louis Federal Reserve

website and just start playing around with
FRED data, and you'll realize that there's

so much BS out there, and you will find so
many things and learn so many things by just

like skipping around on the site.
And that was a great piece of advice. Fred,

it's called FRED, which stands for Federal
Reserve Economic Data. Okay. Um, it has literally

thousands, I forget the exact number, but
it's thousands, maybe even tens of thousands

of data points on the U. S. economy. Everything
you can think of, like how many chickens were

harvested in this county in Kentucky.
And it'll have that data, it'll have a chart

with that data going back to the 1920s. It's
like the most obscure you can think of anything.

And it's a really good tool to like manipulate
data so you can see. Um, you can be like,

all right, GDP divide and then like divide
that by the population of California.

You can get like any statistic you want, which
is really good, but then you realize you can

get any statistic you want. What do you want
to prove? There's enough data there that you

can prove it and find anything that you want.
And so it's an amazing tool. I think it's

a great, it's a great public resource.
It's all free of course and it's just very

usable. You don't need to be an economist
to figure out what you're doing. Anyone can

just go in there and type in unemployment
rate and it'll show you. Every different kind

of unemployment rate broken out by gender,
age, education type, going back to, in some

cases, the 1920s.
It's a great, it's a great piece. Are there

other tools like that that you like to use?
The one that really sticks out, when I used

to live in Washington, D. C., I used to go
to the Library of Congress a lot. And they

have, it used to be just on microfilm, but
now it's all digitized. Every edition. of

many, many newspapers going back to literally
the 1700s.

And I just think it was the coolest. So I
used to go in there and just kill time and

be like, without any objective, I would just
go in there and be like, I'm going to read

the New York Times from a random day in 1922.
And I loved every second of that. It was so

cool. Even the most benign things of just
like, there would be an advertisement for

like women's coats.
And you're like, wow, like a high end women's

coat in 1922 across. 19 or whatever it was.
This is all these little things. But it's

also so interesting to read history when there's
no hindsight bias. And when you read a newspaper

from 1922, they didn't know what was going
to happen in 1923. They didn't know how it

was going to happen in 1929.
So you really get to see, like, what was going

through people's heads at that time. Which,
every history book, That's written with hindsight

bias shapes the story. When you know how the
story ends, it shapes how you write about

it. So I love reading that kind of history
when there's no inherent hindsight bias involved.

Yeah, I was watching an interview with David
McCullough and he was talking about writing

his book about the Brooklyn Bridge. And He
was asked what is the key to writing good

history, and he said exactly this, he said
a great historian will have you reading it,

remembering, feeling that the people who are
experiencing that moment didn't know how history

was going to pan out.
And it's really fascinating if you're talking,

if you're reading about a period, like, In
the middle of the Great Depression or the

middle of World War II when they did not know
how it was gonna end. We know how it ends

now, right? And every book written about the
Great Depression knows that it did end.

But in 1932, they didn't know that it was
gonna end. Mm-Hmm. . And you realize there's

all these, um, alternative histories that
could have happened. Like we think of, uh,

dictatorships and autocracies kind of as in,
in a very negative light today, as, as we

should. Mm-Hmm. in 1932, they by and large
didn't. And when that was the fascists, when

fascism was sweeping through Europe, a lot
of Americans were like.

We should give it a shot too. And when you
are in the depths of the depression and unemployment

rate is 25 percent and the stock market fell
91%, a lot of people who would never consider

that in 1922 are like, Capitalism broke, let's
give something else a shot. And so when you

read how serious they were about it, and these
were smart, educated people, it's pretty shocking.

And the only reason that they were saying
that is because they did not know that it

was going to end. In their view, it might
not ever end. This might be truly the end

of America, so we might as well try something
else. Wow. Are there mantras that you think

about as you're trying to write a story? I
think one that comes to mind that is always

like a little bird on my shoulder chirping
away is What's your point?

Make the point and get out of the way. Like,
it's easy to underestimate how impatient readers

are. And I see it with myself. Not just in
writing, but watching TV and watching movies.

It's just like, what's the point? Get to the
point. What's, what's the point? My, my wife

is the most impatient TV watcher. So if there's
a great series, like, Oh, like my friend told

me this is the best series, we gotta watch
it.

We'll start watching the first five minutes
of the first episode and she'll be like, bored,

moving on. Just got like you got to catch
people's attention. She's extreme like that

in TV, but I think most people are like that
for writing. You got five seconds to catch

somebody's attention. If you didn't catch
them with the headline and you didn't catch

them in the first two sentences, they're done.
They're gone. A lot of the reason why online

writing became snappy, snappier than print
writing, is because with online writing came

a lot of tools where you could track and see
how far down the page the readers made it.

Yep. Which you can't do that in a paper book
or in a paper newspaper. So once these publications

started realizing, Hey, we thought this piece
was really good, and a lot of people clicked

on it, but the average reader made it to the
third sentence before they closed the tab.

Right? Then you, or you can really track it,
you're like, oh, they actually made it down

to 60% and then, and then they dropped off
completely. Well, what happened at 60%? Oh,

you're clearly rambling, and as soon as you
started rambling for three seconds, they're

gone. They're out. How often when you're writing,
do you feel like you have the story?

And then you need to find the point versus
have the point and then start looking for

the story or is it just like this epiphany
that you have, you write it in a sentence,

you email it to yourself and you run from
there. I think it's always the first. I find

the story. Is that right? Always. And then
you're like, how can I, what's the lesson

here that I could apply to something broader?
And I can't think of one time when it's been

the former. What? When it's like, oh, I want
to write an article about competitive advantages

and I need to find a good story that fits
that. It's always, it's every single time

it's been the latter. You're so good at it.
I mean, I just off the top of my head, I think

of so many Morgan stories that you just nailed.
I love the Steamboat Willie one with Walt

Disney. Oh yeah, yeah. Well, so Walt Disney
was, when he was a cartoonist, early in his

career when he was a cartoonist, um, he was
very good at making cartoons and they were

very popular. And, but he had no business
sense whatsoever and all the cartoons he was

making were not.
He was not making any money. So there's a

period when he had made all these cartoons,
all these like cartoon shorts, and he was

on the verge of bankruptcy. It wasn't working.
And then Steamboat Willie completely changed

everything. It was, no, it wasn't Steamboat
Willie. It was Snow White. Snow White completely

and utterly changed everything.
And like by several orders of magnitude, it

was bigger financially than everything else
he had ever made. So at that point in his

career, he had made. Dozens of cartoon short
movies, and none of them mattered except for

Snow White. And that was the movie, he made
so much money from that, that he built a new

studio, and hired a bunch of people, and paid
off a bunch of debts that were about to put

him into bankruptcy.
So I use that as an example of Tales. Like,

he had made, I don't know, 30 movies, and
only one of them mattered. And that is like

a distribution that applies to so many things
in life. Of, if you do 30 things, 29 of them

are going to be irrelevant, or 29 of them
are going to be failures. And one of them,

hopefully, if you're good, will completely
change everything.

How does that show up in your writing? Oh,
I mean, of the, you know, I bet at this point

it's... Pushing 4, 000 blog posts. I think
I'm really proud of like 10 of them. Oh, wow.

That's probably true. Maybe 20. One a year?
Yeah, yeah. No, I always said that. You know,

I write a lot less than I used to. But even
at The Motley Fool when I was writing three

articles a day.
So, you know, several hundred a year. I'd

be proud of five. And I think, I think, I
think if you do that ratio, that's pretty

good. If you can come up with one thing per
year that you're like, Um, this is good. I'm

really proud. And even within that, I can
think of one. per decade, where I'm like,

that was, that's, that was what I would really
want to hang my hat on.

So it's never going to be the case, but I
think it's true for musicians and whatnot.

And it's true. I always use the example, Stephen
King has written like 50 books and the huge

majority of his fame and I bet his income
come from like three of them. Yeah. So even

the very top writers, Mark Twain is like this
too.

The Ken Burns documentary on Mark Twain is
so great. He wrote so many books. That sucked

and nobody cared about and nobody paid any
attention to and you've never heard of them

because it never became famous But as long
as you have Huck Finn that you can throw in

there and Tom Sawyer to throw that none of
it matters Yeah, how do you feel about that

now about to publish a second book that's
coming out?

Does that scare you or is like hey, this might
be a flop scares the hell out of me Yeah,

I but I think you have to accept that as a
writer that if you're gonna write several

books if you are very lucky If you're extremely
lucky, one of them will be great. And I don't

think there's any exceptions to that.
Michael Lewis falls into that. There's a lot

of Michael Lewis books that I bet even Michael
Lewis fans have barely ever heard of. Uh,

The New New Thing. Most people have never
heard of it. Even some of his more recent

books, The Fifth Risk. Yeah. And The Undoing
Project. Um, I'm sure they're great books.

Well written, very insightful.
But it's never going to be the case at everything

you do. How many games has LeBron James lost?
In his career. Like, like a lot, a ton of

games. So no matter what you're doing, your
hit rate's never going to be anywhere remotely

close to 100%. Is it worth trying to get it
up? Or do you think that you're making real

sacrifices by trying to get it up?
Or is it just like, you can't even think about

how to increase your hit rate, it's a fool's
errand to even try to go for it? I think it's

probably closer to the latter. Yeah. I mean,
it's not to say you can't do anything. You

shouldn't just throw crap at the wall and
see what sticks. But you got to be prepared

for the fact that there's going to be a lot
of losing in this and that's hard That's hard

to do particularly for new writers when they're
like, I just started a blog I'm just gonna

see how it works and I wrote ten posts and
like people hated eight of them Yeah, that's

actually a pretty good ratio, you know, but
that's that's hard for people to stomach Tell

me about your office that you write in here.
You always write in there, right? Yeah, and

I travel a lot for work, but I can't I can't
write anywhere else but here. You can't? Can't

do it. Can't do it. Really? Even in a hotel
room by myself, perfectly quiet. I can't.

I just can't do it. I don't, I don't really
know why it is. I think, because I'm not that

sentimental of a person, I don't know what
it is, but I, I write everything just from,

from this office down the hallway here, yeah.
So tell me about the office. Uh, it's small.

Besides your perfect bookshelf. I walked in,
it was all perfect hardcovers and you were

like, every, it's like a perfect line on the
shelf. It's really deliberate. I'm, I'm, I'm,

I'm very, I'm very precise about my bookshelf.
What matters in a home office. Yes. Yes. Um,

I like it.
It's where I do. I spend the majority of my

life in that office. Cause even, you know,
I, I don't write that often. There may be

one day a week that I'm actually typing words
out and the rest of it is just kind of unstructured,

hanging out, reading, thinking, talking to
friends. And that's where the real work happens.

But actually typing is a pretty, it's was
one day a week now. And the rest of the time

it's. Scroll on Twitter, watching a YouTube.
I was just watching a YouTube documentary

about FTX that just came out. And it's a lot
of just unstructured wandering, which is what

I like doing, and it all, it's all in that
room.

Oh, wow. What do you do? Kick your feet up?
Drink coffee? That's it. Feet on the desk,

hang out. Smoke a cigar? Drink coffee. Drink
coffee. Uh, interesting. I didn't realize

that you only typed one day a week. Yeah,
it used to be, you know, I was at the Motley

Fool's every day, every single day. Um, because
I was publishing every single day.

But now I publish about once a week. And normally
it's like, okay, it's Monday. Like, alright,

like, I gotta think of something to write.
Well, what am I thinking about? Oh, I kinda

had this idea, like, I don't know if that's
developed enough. Well, I was thinking about

this other thing. Oh, that might, let's see
where that runs.

Like, oh, let me think about this idea. Okay,
now I'm gonna go for a walk. And I'm thinking

about the, oh, it kind of reminds me of this
other idea. And oh, remember I read that book

a couple years ago? I think that has an example
that I could tie in here. And it's usually

like two days of that. And then it's um, one
day of writing.

I'll knock it all out in one day. And then
I'll usually sit on it for a day and kind

of stare at it. It might change a sentence
or two and then, and then hit publish. Okay.

There's a lot there. So when you're out walking,
you talking to yourself, you thinking to yourself,

like walk me through that process.
I'm listening to music or listening to a podcast,

but it's really common that on a walk, I'll
send myself 15 emails and I, it's an email

that I sent to myself with just a note in
the subject line. Uh, and it'll be like, Oh,

you know, I, Oh, like I'll remember I read
this book five years ago and has this example.

And I forget what the example is, but I'll
write like, Oh, this was the book. Like, I

think there was something about the guy who
did X, Y, and Z. And I'll just send that email

to myself. And all those ideas come to me
while I'm walking. It'll never come to me

when I'm sitting at my desk. So you're just
standing at the street corner, you're just

typing?
Yes, yes. Looking down? And it's usually,

it's usually, sometimes the emails will be
two words to myself. Just a little reminder

to think about this thing. What was your recent
one? What did I write recently? Um, uh, a

few laws about getting rich. Yeah. Yeah, That
one crushed. Yeah, thanks. So how did that

piece come about?
Uh, I was on the treadmill upstairs here,

in my gym upstairs. And um, This is always
how it is. It's never when you sit down and

try to force creativity. It's always walking
or on the treadmill or in the shower or something.

I remember being on the treadmill and I remember
stopping and sending myself an email called

Laws of Getting Rich.
And I had no idea where I was going to go,

but I remember just thinking like, Oh, that'd
be a good, that'd be a good title. Let's do

something with that. And so it just started
with the title, but no idea of where it was

going to go. And then I think when I started
writing that, it was kind of like ideas on

how to get rich.
But then I, very quickly, I was like, nah,

this is not, not going to work. So then it
was like, uh, well, I just started jotting

down ideas. And I noticed that a lot of them
were like negative. They were like, oh, here's

like the downside of getting rich, which seems
like the craziest idea. Like downside of getting

rich.
Tiny violin bullshit is this, but I realized

like once you start putting them together,
it's like, oh, it's like, oh, that's actually

like a common theme that might be kind of
a unique article, right? What are people who

want to get rich or do get rich? What are
they overlooking? What are some of the more

subtle downsides of wealth?
And so after, after that treadmill, there

was probably a walk or two where I just started
throwing, you know, piece and ideas together.

How long are your walks? Um, 20 minutes, 30
minutes, something like that. And if I'm,

if I'm really trying to think of an idea,
it'll be two or three a day. And then I, I

run every other day, usually for an hour.
Um, so that's, that's more time of just kind

of, it's the same as walking, just throwing
some ideas around. Tell me about your business

model, speaking, collaborative fun, books,
like how do you think through that? Yeah,

a couple different, you know, avenues of it.
Um, Collaborative Fund I've been at for seven

years.
So that's, that's great. That's kind of, I've

always felt like that's kind of my core, my
home base. Speaking is something that I picked

up in 2016. It was the first time that I got
paid for speaking. Um, that has become a big

thing of what I do, speaking at conferences,
books was something that I never in a million

years thought would be a thing, but now has
become the biggest driver of, of the business

of what I do.
And then I'm on the board of directors at

Markel. This is another thing that's kind
of like, if I look at my career, those are

the pieces, the different, different elements.
So walk me through the business of speaking,

the business of books. The business of speaking,
I remember it was 2010. I was at a conference

in Vancouver.
Um, I was, I was just a guest at a conference.

I was just in the audience. And I saw Barry
Ritholtz speak. And I had been reading Barry

Ritholtz for a while, but I never met him.
And it was, it was the first financial conference

that I'd ever been to. And I watched Barry
get up on stage and just absolutely own the

500 people in the audience.
Just had them, just crushed it. And I remember

sitting in the back and being like, I want
to do that. That sounds like a cool thing

to do. And I had no idea how much he got paid,
I still don't. But I remember being like,

you can get paid to do that? Like that's,
I want to do that. It was not like I'm going

to do this anytime soon, but it was like,
that seems like a really cool thing to do.

So when I was at the Molly Fool, I did a couple
of talks when I was at the Molly Fool for

pretty big audiences, three, four hundred
people. completely scared out of my mind,

literally like not sleeping the night before,
drenched in sweat as I was walking up to stage,

just so, so scared. But I actually kind of
liked it.

It was actually kind of fun. Like I actually
enjoyed it. And then, um, the first time I

got paid to talk was 2016. It was at the University
of Arizona. Yeah. And so, and then it kind

of grew from there. I think 2018 was the first
year that. First time I did international

stuff, I went to South Africa and Australia,
uh, and India.

And it kinda, it kinda just took off from
there. It definitely kinda snowballs. Once

event planners know that you, that you're
a speaker, it kinda just snowballs from there.

And how do you think about the relationship
between writing and speaking? Well, definitely

what I speak about is what I write about.
And a lot of, like, the stories that I might

tell on a blog is just a story that I will
narrate on stage. And, and, and the, you know,

most of the talks I give are three or four
short stories. Usually the stories have nothing

to do with investing, but have a very clear
Financial takeaway embedded in them.

Which is kind of the structure of my writing.
What makes a good public talk? So much, what

I always try to do is when I give a talk on
stage 90 percent of the words I've memorized

and is effectively verbatim from the previous
talk. And 10 percent I will intentionally

Adlib, because it's very obvious if you are
just doing 100 percent memorized words, it's,

it's, you realize the skill that actors have
because to, uh, speak memorized words and

memorize and not sound like a robot, it's
very, very hard to do.

So that's why like actors are so incredibly
talented because they can memorize the words

and come off as like, they're just spitting
them out, uh, adlib. And so I, I always intentionally

10, maybe even sometimes 20%. I'm just kind
of making it up as I go. But that's within

a very structured talk in which I've memorized
at least 80 percent of the words I'm saying

verbatim.
I'm always, this is one of the core things

we talk about in Rite of Passage. I'm always
amazed at how speaking can so quickly add

structure to thought and how good the mind
is at compressing ideas in speech. So, if

you give your average person 3, 000 words
and they have a 3, 000 word essay. You're

like, Hey, condense this to 500 words.
They're like, come again. Yeah, I can't do

that. If somebody has a five minute talk and
you're like, okay, hey, say what you just

said, but now say it to like Uncle Joe in
like 20 seconds. They're actually pretty good

at doing that. And there's something natural
and intuitive about speech in terms of your

ability to compress and distill an idea that
I really like tapping into.

One thing I really love about speaking too.
Um, I, I read recently that Mark Twain used

to read his work out loud to his family and
he would watch their emotional reactions and

when he could tell that his wife and kids
were getting bored, he'd be like, Oh, got

to cut that section. And when his wife and
kids would like lean forward in their seat,

he'd be like, Oh, I'm onto something here.
And I think it's very similar when you're

giving a talk on stage where the audience,
you can really tell when you're boring them

and you can tell when you've got their attention
and you don't get that feedback when you write.

So there's a lot, there's been several times,
I can't think of specific examples, but I

can remember times when I could tell, oh,
this portion of my speech I've given before,

everyone looks bored when I say this, this
portion, I can literally see eyeballs, like

pupils increasing when I say this, this thing.
So you, that kind of feedback you don't get

when you're writing, that's really valuable
when you speak. Mm hmm. Um, how are you going

to teach your kids to write? I don't know
if I will, because I don't want, nobody taught

me to write. And if they pushed me to do it,
I absolutely would have rebelled.

Interesting. So it was such a serendipitous
discovery for me, this career path. It was

never planned. And like I said, when I started
doing it, I was actually like embarrassed

about it. I didn't want to become a writer.
And I think that's a very healthy way to enter

a field. I think particularly if someone pushes
you into it, if your parents say, here's how

to do it, and here's why you should do it,
like you rebel.

The other thing is that if, you know, I think
a lot of my writing was just figuring it out

through trial and error. And I don't think
you can, It's hard to sit down and say like

here's the structure of it and definitely
early on in my writing if I go back and look

at what I wrote The Motley Fool in 2008, 2009,
I was always experimenting with different

voices and different styles and before I kind
of settled on whatever the voice and style

is now.
But I think if someone tried to say, here's

how to do it, I never would have experimented
with different things before I finally found

out my own one. Tell me about those experiments.
I think it was a lot of it is when I did start

reading a lot. Probably after I had been a
writer for a year or two is when I got big

into reading.
I would read, um, you know, a guy named Bill

Bonner who works for, um, he wrote a newsletter
called the Daily Reckonings, his financial

newsletter. And I just thought his voice was
so good. What about it? It was so short and

snappy. And you could like, you could just
sense the emotion in it, even if it was just

a, it was just a digital newsletter.
So there are periods where I tried to write

like him and like, it didn't work, but I just,
I would experiment with it. Michael Lewis

has been a lot, uh, Felix Salmon, if people
remember him, he was a writer for Reuters.

I remember trying to copy his. style. I think
that's a really healthy way to find your own

is just like, who do you look up to?
Like try to do that. And I bet if you were

to look at my style today, I bet if I wanted
to, I could piece it apart and be like, Oh,

actually that I learned from Felix Salmon
that I learned from Bill Bonner that I learned

from Bethany McLean. And like, it's, it's
all, you're just a big mix of the people who

you've looked up to over the years.
Can you share some of those lessons that come

to mind of Bethany or Felix Salmon? Are there
any? Felix Samuels was always very blunt and

to the point. No pussyfooting around. Whatever
his point was, he was just going to slam it

in your face and hit period. Yeah. That was,
I think, really clear because a lot of other

authors are just like, they're just going
to mosey into it.

Yeah. Felix Samuels was just like, when you
read his piece, there's no, there's, there's

no mistaking what the point he's trying to
make. Right. That was really powerful. Robert

Curson, Michael Lewis was all just storytelling.
It's just like, you gotta, you gotta draw

in emotion by telling somebody's story.
Bethany McLean, I think, is one of the greatest

writers of our time. And because she is as
smart as any hedge fund manager, any banker,

any lawyer, and she's as good of a writer
as name whoever you want. And like those together,

it's just like, she's just such a gem. It's
barely an exaggeration to say that she like

single handedly cracked the Enron case.
And she was like in her late 20s at the time.

And you look back at that and it's just astounding
and what the Enron management did to her kind

of like trying to Scare her out of writing
these stories. She was a writer for fortune

at the time and she was piecing together that
this company that everybody loved Enron she

was piecing it together and being like none
of this makes sense You know, this is a big

thing that for a certain kind of writing that
I think really leads to quality is the courage

to see something with your own eyes and to
trust it.

Yeah. When everything that you're reading
from somebody else says the opposite of what

you're just looking at. And, And you ever
see those studies of, they're the three lines.

And everyone in the classroom is like, Oh,
this line is the longest one, and it's not

the longest one. And it's like, this line
is the longest one.

And a lot of people will be persuaded by what
other people are thinking. Yeah. And they

just won't trust what they see with their
own eyes and hear with their own ears. And

I think for a certain kind of writing, like
what you're saying with Bethany, it just comes

down to, no, I'm going to trust my senses
and to hell with what...

The social world thinks there's gonna be,
it's gonna take some courage, but this is

just what I'm seeing, and I'm gonna say what
I'm seeing, and there's a real simplicity

about that, but actually with the way that
humans are so social and fearful at times

about being excommunicated from the group,
it can be really hard to do.

Yeah, and I don't want to put words in her
mouth, but I remember a story that she told

that was something along the lines of. She
would sit down to interview the CEO and CFO

of Enron before the company collapsed. And
they would say something along the lines of

like, Little girl, you have no idea what you're
doing here.

Like kind of take it and to have the courage
to be like, No, I'm going to publish this.

I'm going to do it. Is, is so incredible.
The other thing she does so well is that she

has the financial and accounting skills to
piece all this together, but she also perfectly

understood and wrote about the personalities
of Ken Lay and Andrew Fastow, the management

of Enron.
Have you been surprised by the popularity

of audiobooks? Oh, it completely blows me
away. The audiobook version of Psychology

of Money outsells the physical version two
to one. And never in a million years would

I have thought that because I'm not an audiobook
guy. I think everyone just assumes that how,

how I consume content is how other people
are going to consume content too.

Right. Um, but it's, it's not the case. There
are so many people who don't have the time

to sit down and read a book, but they'll listen
to an audiobook on their commute. Or at the

gym, or while they're doing dishes, while
they're cooking dinner, then they have the

time to listen. So that's been, it's been
the biggest growth by far of the book industry

over the last 10 years, and it's explosive.
Um, and, you know, it's, it's growing by the

year. It's bigger this year than it was last
year. It's huge. It's not only, it's not this

little bit player. What's interesting is that
when Kindle came out, I don't know, 10, 15

years ago, I remember thinking, The physical
book industry is gone. Why would anyone buy

a physical book if you can read it on Kindle?
That was my view at the time. And Kindle is,

I mean, it's not tiny, but it's a pretty insignificant
portion of the whole book industry. But audio

is enormous. The margins are low on audiobooks
though, right? Doesn't Amazon or Audible take

like 70%? It's a lot. It's a lot. You would
think that they would be higher margins because

there's no physical inventory.
But that gets made up by the higher, higher

fees on that end. Is that a monopoly thing,
you think? I, I don't have the skill to have

a, an opinion on that. But when you see the
numbers, it's, it makes you rise an eyebrow.

Interesting. Interesting. International. You've
crushed internationally. Yeah. What of, so

Psychology Money just passed 4 million copies
sold.

And I think at least a million and a half
of those. Or outside of the United States,

maybe more, maybe 2 million of those are outside
of the United States. So from your first 1

million copies, I'm not sure that this is
totally accurate, but I did some back of the

napkin. 440, 000 international, 250, 000 paperback,
75, 000 e book, 200, 000 audio.

Does that sound about right? Sounds right,
sure, yeah. Interesting. Yeah. If I had thought

of the makeup when it published, I would have
thought it would be 98 percent physical. One

percent audio, one percent Kindle. That's
what I would have thought, but it's nothing

remotely close. And also never in a million
years thought about international, what that

would be.
Um, it's, it is true that the U. S. book market

is, even in per capita terms, bigger than
almost any other market. Americans read a

lot. Oh wow. Versus other countries, but there's
obviously a lot of other people out in the

world. Yeah, totally. You read a lot of interviews.
Yeah, that's a big thing that stands out from

your end notes compared to other ones.
And I think that's where you get all the good

stuff, is when you sit down like this and
you start prying into someone, you start getting

their story. That's like, all of the information
is a commodity. All the numbers are a commodity.

He's just like, what's the story that you
can get? That's where you really learn a lot

of the stuff.
And so many people have been, so many big,

famous, successful people have been so generous
with interviews. Steve Jobs, Warren Buffett,

all these people have given great, amazing
interviews that you can learn so much from.

Everyone knows the famous Steve Jobs commencement
speech at Stanford. Of course. If that's the

only thing that you ever read of Steve Jobs,
you'll learn like the majority of what you

need to know, of what you need to learn from
Steve Jobs is given there.

So a lot of these interviews or similar formats
are just like, they're just gold mines of

information. And I think it's also, what I've
tried to do too, is I think it's really important

as an author. To rather than you, the author,
trying to be the credible resource to quote

other people, quote people who are more qualified
than you.

And a lot of authors don't want to do this.
They want to be like, no, I just, I don't

want to, you know, give the spotlight to somebody
else. I want to be the one who's speaking

on the page. And I've always been the opposite.
I just want to quote as many people as liberally

as I can. Because if I say X, Y, and Z is
true, you might believe it.

But if I says, according to Warren Buffett.
X, Y, and Z is true. You're gonna believe

it. So I just, I try to quote these people
from their interviews as liberally as I can.

Yeah, one of my favorite examples of when
you do this is in Selfish Writing when you're

talking about the interview with Ritholtz
and Howard Marks.

Yeah. Howard Marks just wrote his memos for
like 10 years and nobody Nobody read them.

Nobody read them. And then Ritholtz was like,
what are you doing? And he said something

to the effect of I'm just writing for myself
and I'm imagining you're sitting there reading

the interview. You're like, ha, selfish writing.
That's what I do. Hey, this is actually a

concept. So tell me about that. That's exactly
it. I mean, so Howard Marks, his memos are

read by a zillion people and they turn them
into a book called the most important thing

that's sold a zillion copies. Like Howard
Marks is he's a billionaire investor and he's

a very talented, successful writer.
And he tells a story about when he started

writing his memos, I think it was 1990. Nobody
read him. He would write his memos and send

those clients and his clients back then he
was snail mailing them to his clients And

he talked to his clients and they'd be like
I threw it away No, we don't and it didn't

bother him the slightest because he was doing
these memos to crystallize his own thoughts

They were for him.
They weren't for other people It was like

his diary that he just happened to mail out
to other people and he talked about how doing

that the process of writing would crystallize.
He would have these vague hunches, but then

when he went down to write them, he would
really clarify like, Oh, that's, that's what

I mean.
That's this feeling that I have when I put

it into words. Either one of two things happens
when you put it into words, you either see

how ridiculous it is. And you realize that
that gut feeling is just something that you

want to be true, but it's actually not true.
Once you put it into words or you'll be like,

Oh, that's what it is.
I kind of had this. Feeling this hunch, but

now that's now it's clarified and I can do
something with it. So he was writing for himself

And he did it for years and years before they
really started getting passed around and people

were paying attention to them and I you know,
I um My version of that it was hopefully not

that I write and nobody pays any attention
to it You know, that was true early on but

I want to write for myself, too I feel like
everything I write these days including both

of these books are just i'm trying to figure
out my own problems Trying to figure out my

own life.
And I call it selfish writing because I want

to be a selfless person, but in writing, you're
going to do your best work, and I'm going

to have my best work if I'm just trying to
figure out my own problems and do things right

in a style that I enjoy, about topics that
I find interesting. And I think know your

audience turns very quickly into pander to
your audience.

It's really hard to know when to stop and
when know your audience turns into pandering

to them. And I never want to write something
where it's like, oh, I already know this,

but I need to explain it to you. I only want
to write things that I don't know and I'm

trying to figure out myself. You know what
I always think about?

It's funny, I feel like this is really cool.
To do in music and totally encouraged, but

not cool to do in writing. I always just one
of my favorite things about going to a live

show is to just imagine what it is like. When
you're a musician and you just love your music.

Yeah. Like, you have created a sound that
just gets you going and you're like, yes!

But something about writing that isn't encouraged.
I, I, I always love, I know I'm onto something

when I will write something. I don't think
anything I write is funny, but there's sometimes

I'll write a sentence and I'll laugh out loud.
And that's when I know, if like, if I'm enjoying

the piece so much that I'm gonna laugh at
what I just wrote, I'm like, this, that, that's

when it's onto something.
Rather than being like, oh, other people will

think that's funny. Be like, no, I think it's
funny. That's, that's when you know you're

onto is when you like it. This is, it was,
I think it was Kafka. Kafka used to laugh

so loudly that he would keep his neighbors
up. And it's not just humor, but Tom Stoppard,

the comedian said, laughter is the sound of
comprehension.

And so I think that you're laughing when you
have an epiphany too. And so when you're learning

things and you're seeing. You're making these
connections and the connections just feel

obvious. And they're like, you're laughing.
It's like, how didn't I know this? That is

where the laughter comes from. So I think
the laughter comes as much from an epiphany

as humor.
Yeah. Yeah. So I think it's just like a, like

a chef of like, well, does the food taste
good to you? Like if it doesn't taste good

to you, it's not gonna taste good to anybody
else. You might as well enjoy it. Yeah. The

other thing that I think you and I both have
is like an extreme impatience. Like I think

our brains are just like, go, go, go.
And one of the things I've been thinking a

lot about. Is that right? Or thinking is,
is horizontal and writing is vertical. And

so I'll tell you what I mean by that. Like,
if you're out on a walk, what are you doing?

Like you're sort of making connections between
different things. Like the brain likes to

skip.
I've done some meditation in my life. And

like, what I find is I'm going from this topic
to this topic, to this topic. But what writing

does, is it just like, In almost this torturous,
torturous way, it anchors me to an idea, and

now I'm stuck on this idea, and all my brain
wants to do is just go, go, go, but I'm like

trapped on the idea, and so all I can do is
go down, and what I find is, when I'm writing,

I'm like perpetually frustrated, I'm angry,
I'm pissed off, I like wanna go do these other

things, my brain is like, you cannot stay
this still, but I get to the end, it's been

a few hours, or it's been a few weeks, I've
been working on a piece, and I'll, Go to the

bar with a friend or I'll go to dinner with
a friend.

I'll be talking about, Hey, this is what I'm
working on. And they're like, how do you know

so much about this? And I'm like, Oh, I guess
I've, I've really thought through this because

the writing has like anchored me to the topic.
And like in that pain, in that frustration,

I've really done this like giant deep, deep,
deep, deep, deep, deep dive.

And then I just come up for air and. I've
had a real shift without even realizing it.

Yeah. No, that's good. Um, I, I, I always
feel like there's sometimes where I'll just

get into themes. And it's like, even if it's
a different topic, you know, for, you know,

when I was writing in 2008, I was writing
a lot about real estate and banks and whatnot.

You just get into a theme. So if you're writing
different things, you're kind of like, usually

every six to twelve months you're kind of
like in this kind of zone. For me, it's just

been, I think, Behavioral finance has been
the big one, but that didn't come until five

or seven years ago that I really got interested
in that, but that's how you can like drill

down on topic two without being onto like
one specific topic, but it's like, yeah, it

all kind of falls under this umbrella.
How are you thinking about the story or book?

So you got psychology of money. Now you got
same as ever, like. How do you think about

how your books play together? How are you
thinking about, I mean, everything from both

books are basically exactly 200 pages worth
of content. It was all bound to the word count.

I think psychology of money is 48, 000 words.
Same as Everest, 47, 500. It's almost the

exact same word count. Did you try to go for
that? No, it was just kind of how it ended

up. Yeah, I mean they're both, they're both
short books. Yeah. Then you sort of committed

to the same sort of general title, uh, or
same general cover.

Yes. Right, so they sort of play well together.
Same font, thank you. There's words for this,

font. That's right. Ha ha ha. Font, not the
same title, same font. Um, do you think of

them as sort of like sisters? Do you think
of them as... Stylistically, they're almost

identical. They're both, they're, you know,
chapters are a little bit less than 2000 words

each.
They're all, almost every chapter is a story

that has nothing to do with the broader point
here, but it's a story to get a point across

of like, this is how people think. And then
it goes into, okay, here's the lesson that

we can take away from that. Stylistically,
they're identical. I really think of psychology

of money as like the psychology of you, the
individual.

And same as ever as the psychology of us,
the collective. Oh, like what is this? What

does society keep doing over and over again?
I think that's how they're. different and

psychology money is obviously a finance book
and same as ever is much broader. There's

a lot that's about finance that's in there,
but it's broader topics.

It's just how people behave and how they respond
to risk and greed and fear and those kinds

of things. You know, one of your chapters
in here is trying too hard and the subtitle

is there are no points awarded for difficulty.
Yeah. And I think this shows up in your writing.

Like you refuse to write pieces that aren't
coming easily to you.

You're just like, I'm not going to work on
this. You have that great line. Writing for

others is hard and it shows, writing for yourself
is easy and it shows. And I think that one

of the things, one of the ways that you stand
out as a writer is you're just like, I'm just

going to follow the flow. And if there's no
flow, then we're done.

We're done, because you know what, the idea
is probably not great. Yes. Every time I've

started to write a piece, and it's from the
get go it's tough, I'm done. Just close it

down, we'll try something else. If it's not
easy from the get go, From the first sentence,

you're, you're done. We're done here. But
you still have moments of difficulty.

Yeah, yeah. So how do those two things play
together? I think usually when I start writing,

you can tell really quickly. At least when
you've been doing it for a long time, you

can tell. After you've written a couple sentences,
you can be like, Oh yeah, this is really starting

to click. Or you can just, you can just start
and you're like, this, this is not, I mean,

it's almost like a first date, you can, first
date, you can tell, you can tell them five

minutes, like that's not going to work.
This is not going to work here. So it's, it's

when it's hard from the beginning, but there's
plenty of times when, you know, the first

half is good and then it really starts struggling,
but you can usually fix that. Whereas if it's

hard from the beginning, you really can't
fix that. Right, right. Let's do, uh, Let's

play, I'm going to go through different chapters,
same as ever, and we're going to take out

the writing lesson.
Uh, best story wins. We'll start with an easy

one. Yeah. It's always the case that it's
not the best idea, it's not the right answer,

it's not the correct answer, it's the best
story. Gets people nodding their heads. I'm

a big fan of Ken Burns, who makes documentaries.
One of the things that's so amazing about

Ken Burns is that...
There is very little, if any, new information

in his documentaries. Everyone knows about
the Civil War. Everyone knows who fought,

how it ended. Everyone knows the details of
the battles. What he did, better than anyone

else who's ever existed, is told a good story
about it. And his other documentaries about

Vietnam and World War II and everything that
he's done.

He takes information that people already know.
And he tells a ridiculously good story about

it. He has this interview where he talks about
how important music is in his documentaries.

And he will literally change the script of
his music, so that a specific word that's

being narrated matches up with a specific
beat of the background music.

No way. And he will literally go through and
be like, we need to cut eight words out of

the script, so that when the narrator says
this powerful word, there's a boom in the

music behind it. Nobody else does that. No
other historian is doing that. But that's

why, that's how he sticks out. And the craziest
statistic is that when his documentary on

the Civil War came out in 1990, more Americans
watched it in 1990 than watched the Super

Bowl.
And this is about a topic that is, everybody

knows about. It's like the most documented
thing in American history. Everybody knows

about the Civil War. But he tells a story
about, you can't, I, he, his, he came out

with a documentary a year or two ago about
the Holocaust, and I watched most of it on

a plane, and I, Cried half the time.
It's embarrassing to sing when you're on a

plane. You're like 37 ages. He is so good
at just pulling at the, you can't, you can't

feel. You can't help but feel the emotion
in his work because he's a storyteller. What

is it about the New York one that you love
so much? The New York documentary is actually

done by his brother, a guy named Rick Burns.
Oh, is that right? Ken Burns brother. It's

a story about the law, the history of New
York City, starting from when it was first

settled by the Dutch through modern times.
And it's, I think, 18 hours long. And it's

the same thing. Very much. I, I don't know
what, what was in the drinking water in the

Burns household growing up, but it's the same
thing.

It's the emotion of it. It's the background
music. It's, it's, it was really incredible

to me to watch this Ken Burns, uh, interview.
It was actually on the smart list podcast

where he talks about this, where he talks
about how important music is to the documentaries,

the background music that he's, that's, what's
really tugging at your emotions and getting

you into this moment.
And I just think about it from the sense of

Ken Burns is a historian, but there's literally
not another historian on the planet. Who's

thinking about the storytelling as much as
he is. And that, that's why he's so popular.

But that lesson applies to a lot of things.
Even like a product design. Like the famous

Steve Jobs when he came out with the iPod.
Thousand songs in your pocket. He could have

just said digital music, MP3 player, and it
would have come out, but no, no thousand songs

in your pocket. Like you can relate to that.
You can feel that. So that's, I think it's

in when, if you have a technical job. If you're
into finance or you're a, you're a code or

whatever it would be, you think analytically.
And when you think analytically, you're just

like, what's the right answer? If I find the
right answer, I win. And for almost everything

in life, it's not the case. Even I would say
someone like Warren Buffett, like is he technically

minded as a stock? Of course. But one of the
things that he's done so ridiculously well

since he was in his 20s is he's so good at
explaining what he does.

And why he's doing it that early on his career,
he had all of these rich people in Omaha who

were like, he would, the Buffett would sit
them down and say, this is how I pick stocks

and value investing. And they'd be like, I
buy it. Here's a million bucks. And he was

able to raise money and hold onto money that
he would manage for other people because he

was such a good storyteller.
And I think that's true through today. in

his annual letters or when he goes on CNBC.
I think a lot of that done is for a strategic

purpose of like, he tells such a good story
that people trust him because it all makes

sense. It's so clearly explained in a folksy
manner that people just like, Oh, I get it.

I'm going to give you my money and you just
go do your thing now. Bezos is the same way.

I just saw his book in your office, and he
always has, it's day one at the bottom of

every shareholder letter. And he has basically
said to his investors, hey, we're going to

think really long term. And while so many
other companies have had to go quarter to

quarter, he's just done a, been super consistent
about saying this, I'm going to run the company.

And this is. One thing that I really have
appreciated about the investing finance industry

is they figured out how to use writing to
attract capital, to get the right shareholders,

to really align thinking and coordinate people,
and I feel like is very far ahead in terms

of using the internet to to write and get
stuff done because of it.

Yeah. And you can see why people would, if
they have the quote unquote, the right answer

and they're not getting ahead, it's because
that you, that's not how you get people's

attention. It's all just, it's always everywhere
you look, it's best story wins. You were talking

about that Ken Burns anecdote, and that is
a great category of anecdote, which is insert

great person.
What is something that they do that people

who aren't in that field would be. astonished
that they do. So we do a fun one at rite of

passage that is, that has really been a big
shift. So in our fifth cohort, we call us,

this was the COVID cohort. So we were stuck
and we had this giant cohort. And that's really

when things began to take off because no one
had anything to do.

And so Will, who co founded the business with
me, we were chatting and we got to the end

of a live session and we were sort of annoyed
with each other because he was trying to communicate

something to me and I wasn't really getting
it because I was presenting it and we were

like, ah, you know, we need to, we need to
come up with something.

And one of us goes, you know what, let's just
start an iMessage thread and you'll just put

your iMessage right at the bottom and you'll
present. And so now we go back and forth and

we have like six people on iMessage. So if
there's something happening with slides or

something happening with music, there's live
chat feeds that are getting streamed to me.

And I'm just presenting and I have six people
on the team who are feeding me things. Hey,

go faster, go slower. Hey, you need to gain
energy, lose energy. And then for. One of

our more recent cohorts, we went from keynote
slides to pitch slides and on pitch. com you

can live update speaker notes. So last night
I was teaching and Will had a sense, my co

founder, had a sense that I just needed to
pause.

And so I look at the speaker's notes and sort
of this teleprompter and he goes. pause in

italics, which always means don't read it.
That's like a, yeah, that's a speaker note.

Pause. Our students just need to chill. And
then just, he goes, wait five seconds. And

I'm speaking and I'm like two seconds away
from it.

And I just pause. I just wait. And it's all
just moving at the speed of the internet.

And we'll get comments like, Hey, how do you
deliver presentations like this? And I'm like,

Oh, we're doing things behind the scenes that
come from running 200 live sessions in the

last five years. The pause is, the pause is
good.

There's a lot of that for public speaking.
Yes. Everyone's intuition is like, I gotta

speak, but like the pause is sometimes the
most important, powerful part of it. Just

like let something, if you say something and
then pause, it gives the audience time to

think about what you just said. Yeah. But
if you move on to the next topic, they're

just like, Oh, I'm trying to keep up here.
That's good. Do you ever think about quitting?

Oh, yeah. All the time. I was more worried
about getting fired. I was more worried that

just I didn't have the skills to do this and
the economy was so weak and if I got laid

off, nobody else was hiring. That was my fear
at the time, particularly early on when I

was just like, I have no business doing this.
I'm not a writer. I really don't know what

I'm talking about here. So you combine that
with the criticism, like deserved criticism

that the readers were giving you the pieces.
Like that was a, I'm not going to say it was

a stressful job. There's a lot of jobs that
are harder, but it was, it was not easy at

the time.
What was the nature of the criticism? Uh,

either you're wrong about the topic that you're
analyzing and half the time they were right.

I was wrong. Or just the, the style sucks.
Didn't make any sense. I specifically remember

this comment. This is probably 2008 or 2009.
Now forget the article, but it's back when

we had comment sections and the comment was
to the effect of what is this writer even

talking about?
I don't understand any of his points here.

Like I got to the bottom of the article and
I have no idea what this article is about.

I remember, I remember reading that comment
and being like, he's right. And that hurts.

Like, I remember that was like a low day of
just like, what am I doing? I'm pretending

to be a writer.
I have no idea what I'm doing here. That was

hard. Yeah, of course. I think because the
barriers to entry are low in writing. Anybody

can do it. Anyone can start a blog tomorrow,
which is a beautiful thing. That's a great

thing. But it also means that a lot of people
who are doing it in a formalized way don't

have a ton of experience.
Whereas if you are doing open heart surgery,

You only, the first time you do it, you know
what you're doing. You've been trained. I

hope so. You've been trained for probably
a decade at that point. To get to that point.

Whereas anyone can just throw a blog together.
Which again, is great. Because you get so

much content.
You can practice and what not. But it makes

it so it's easy to start without really having
a good idea of what's going to work and what's

not going to work. Probably a good thing that
you didn't publish your first book then for...

What, 12 years after you started writing?
Uh, 14. I'd been a writer for 14 years before

Psychology of Money came out.
And that was, that was, that was great. I

look back, and we were talking about this
earlier with my wife. She says it was just

laziness why I waited that long. I think that's
true. Um, and I'm so glad. If I had written

this book in 2010, A, I, I could have. And
B, it would have sucked. It would not have

been any good.
So I'm so glad I waited as long as I did.

I was not in a hurry at all to get it out.
Along what axes did you improve the most as

a writer and how? I think brevity and storytelling.
I think if I look 10 years ago, there were

not as many stories or they weren't very good,
and I would just ramble. I would take a thousand

words to what I would hopefully use a hundred
words now.

So it's those two things, which to me, pers
for The reading that I like to do, that's

what I like the most. I like stories and I
like people who get to the point. Brevity

too doesn't necessarily mean that it's short,
it just means it's to the point. I always

use Doris Kearns Goodwin as an example, the
presidential historian.

She has written books that are 900 pages.
And every single word needs to be there. In

900 pages, there's not a single word of fluff.
So brevity doesn't mean short. It just means

that there's no rambling. So I think that's,
that's what I've tried to improve the most.

Of like, can I catch your attention with a
story?

And can I make sure that I don't lose your
attention once I got it? What do you think

you needed to learn in order to get brevity?
Uh, I think a lot of it was just thinking

hard about what I like to read. And just kind
of like, oh, I really like this book. Well,

what do I like about it? Well, it got to the
point.

I was never bored. I kept turning every page
and I'm like, why did I do that? Well, because

there's a great quote, I forget who said it,
but he says, when you're writing, leave out

the parts that readers tend to skip. And I
think that's like, it's a tongue in cheek

quote, but it's like, it's so true. And everyone
knows when you're reading an article or reading

a book, parts you tend to skip.
You're just like, ah, this section's not doing

it for me. Okay. So when you're writing, leave
that part out. Just don't do that. Just cut

it out. And I think so it was, it was analyzing
what I like to read and trying to mimic it

in my writing. And tell me about this Google
doc that you have of all the stuff that you've

deleted and you have this giant Google doc
or something.

Yeah. And it's now. It might be close to like
100, 000 words, like the equivalent of two

books of things. It's called Scrap Bits. It's
a Google doc called Scrap Bits. And it's things

like when I'm writing an article or a lot
of it came from book writing, I would write

a section, I'd write an anecdote, write four
or five paragraphs.

And I would think like, Oh, that's pretty
good, but it doesn't fit here. I'm going to

save it for later. And it's so often. It happens
so often that I'm writing something and I'm

kind of stuck on the article and I'm like,
I can't think of, I can't think of the example

here or the story that I'm like, Oh, I think
in scrap bits, there's actually this little

anecdote that I can plug in here that I wrote
five years ago and it didn't work for that

piece, but it works perfectly for this piece.
So I think saving that, you know, cutting

room floor scraps is really important. You'll,
you'll be surprised how often you can recycle

it. Do you write your books in Google Docs?
Yeah, we just have a giant Google Doc called

same as ever and you're just like I have it
all there that you got the little chapters

on the left side and I and I back it up in
about 17 locations because I'm so paranoid

about losing it.
Oh, that's good. I can't imagine like being

just about done with the book and then you
Lose it somehow. Your, your, your, your Gmail

account gets hacked or something. There's
something uniquely horrible about losing something

you've written. It's, it's terrible. I back
it up so much, particularly towards the end

of the book.
I will back it up in multiple, multiple locations

because I'm so paranoid about losing it. Oh,
here's a fun question. All right. Give me

10 chapter titles for your book, The Psychology
of Writing. Okay. And you're writing... Stephen

Pressfield style book on writing. So what
are the ten chapters? How would you think

of?
Alright, I don't know if I'm going to get

to ten, but I'll spit some out. Cool. Number
one, what's your point? What are you trying

to make? Number two, get to the point. Number
three, move on to the next point. There's

a, there's a, I forget who wrote the book.
The book's title is Nobody Wants to Read Your

Shit.
Stephen Pressfield. Is that Pressfield? Yeah.

And it's true. Like even if you just read
the headline of that book, that lesson, nobody

wants to read your shit. Yeah. Have that idea
in your mind the whole time and just be like,

look, I also heard, I forget who said this,
but they're like, when you're writing, you

should pretend that every word costs you 100.
Oh, that's right. And when you're doing that,

you'll be like, do I need this word? Do I
need this sentence? Not, is this a good sentence?

Just, do I need it? Do I need it? There are
a lot of good sentences that are like, oh,

that's a well crafted sentence. Yeah, but
you don't need it. It's just rambling. I know

it's a good sentence.
I know it's kind of clever, but you don't

need it. Get rid of it. Yeah. And I think
if you do that, that would, that would definitely

be in there. Um, selfish writing would be
a title because I think it would comply to

most people. Write things that you want to
read in a style that you enjoy and don't think

about anyone else.
The other reason that's good is that particularly

when you're a young writer, if you're thinking
about the people who are gonna read this,

you'll get nervous, you'll get shy, and you're
like, ah, I don't know if I'm brave enough

to say that to other people. So, okay, just
live inside your own head. Just pretend this

is a diary.
And then when you hit publish, don't think

about it. That's, I think that's, that's really
the only way to do it. That would, that would

be a big one. Best story wins would definitely
be right up in there. That would be good.

Um, I, I always, I always, uh, when I'm reading
any book that makes me emotional, I'm Kind

of an emotional person.
It's not that hard, but I know I always kind

of stop and be like, what, what was the paragraph,
the word that got me to tear up here that

like really tied all this together? And I'm
like, oh, that's, that's got, try to pay attention

to those moments of like the, the really emotional,
like how did the author do this to me to bring

me to this point?
Who's done that well? Uh, the Ken Burns documentary

that I talked about, I, I like a lot of, uh,
military history, so a lot of, if you're reading

about World War II or the Holocaust or whatever,
there's quite a bit of, I think the reason

I like World War II history is that the widest
spectrum of emotions took place In that six

year period that has ever existed, not just
the most amount of suffering, but the most

amount of elation and joy and weight lifted
off your shoulders when the war wasn't like

the whole spectrum of emotions, uh, took place
in an, in a, in a magnitude that was unprecedented

and shoved it into the six year period.
So I like read, some people will like World

War II cause they like, you know, I don't
know, military history, like military strategy.

I just like. Thinking about and studying and
trying to think about what it would feel like

to be in that vast range of emotions that
people felt like. In the vast range, everyone

thinks about, of course you should, the suffering
and the pain that took place.

But I think the happiest day... In all of
U. S. history, where everyone in the country

was happier than they had ever been, was V
J Day in 1945, when Japan surrendered and

the war was done. And the famous picture is
from Times Square. So like, there were a lot

of emotions that took place in that period
that are just like...

off the charts, happy and joyful. And so the
range of it is like, there's so much of that.

Uh, when you're reading about the topic where
it's just like, it's an emotional rollercoaster.

Is there a particular emotional frequency
that really resonates with you? Um, I think

it's One of the things that sticks out, that's
a good lesson for a lot of things, is how

resilient people are.
Mmm. So, the people who've been through some

heavy shit, and then you realize how they
pulled their life back together and kept going.

It's not that the scar was, was, was gone.
The scar is always there, but learning about

resilience is, is really important. I think
there's a lot of good personal lessons in

there of like, people can, people can adapt.
better than they think. And it's easy to extrapolate

the, the, the hole that you're in and be like,
I'm in this dark pit of despair right now

and it's going to be like that forever. But
a lot of those lessons are pretty telling

about how people adapted after the war, even
the people who had really been through a tough

experience.
I want to ask you the same question that you

asked me to ask Steven Pressfield. How has
your writing improved through your entire

life? Has it peaked or plateaued? I think
there's a chance. It's, well, I think it's

plateaued. And I think it may have peaked.
Really? Maybe. I hope not. But I don't want

to pretend like you can keep growing forever.
That would be great if you could. I think

maybe if it's not improvement, it's just,
um, evolution. So I would, I would suspect

that ten years from now I'll be writing in
a different voice. But it might not be better.

It'd just be different. Mm hmm. And I think
everyone, when they write, they're just kind

of, it's a reflection of who you are.
And I'll be a different person in 10 years.

My kids will be older. I'll have different
desires. Uh, I'll be a different phase of

life. So of course I'm going to write differently.
And the, my first article with Motley Fool

that did well, the impending destruction of
the Osaka, I was 25 at the time. So I was

like, I was naive and immature.
I would never write that today because I'm

a different person. So it's just an evolution,
even if it's not improvement. You know, there

is a real One sidedness almost dramatically
so way of writing that I had when I started

that was like This is how the world is everybody
else is wrong. Here's my super same sort of

you had impending destruction of the US economy
I wrote a piece called what the hell is going

on?
All the universities are gonna die. It's all

over. The whole thing is a sham And you really
get humbled by how incorrect some of your

super bold predictions are when you start.
And you look back at that, you scratch your

head a bit. You're like. Okay, the world is
a little bit more subtle than I gave it credit

for.
I think that's, if you're, if you're writing

for a living and you're always just trying
to analyze the world around you, and you're

doing that 365 days a year, you don't have
to do it for that long of a period of time

before you're just humbled about all these
things. Yeah. And then when you have, or you

hear a big idea, you're like, eh, maybe.
Probably not. I don't know. The world's really

nuanced and nobody has any idea what the hell's
going on. Yeah. Yeah. In what way do you find

yourself analyzing the world? Like for me,
I am very attentive to like super details.

I think, I think I'm the opposite. If you're
at the ground level, I'm 30, 000. For level

always and the details like when I go to a
restaurant, I'm usually just hungry.

That's all I'm paying attention to, but I'm
much more, you know, back to, you know, when

I started as a, we were writing about finance,
everyone else was like, well, how much cash

do they have on their balance sheet? What's
the PE ratio? And like, it was like, very

detail oriented. And I was just, I was just
interested in like, well, like, what are people

thinking?
How are they like, what's going through their

heads? Are they, are they scared? Are they
overconfident? Just like a much higher level,

broad view of how people think. So a lot of
the technical details of what's going on in

the world, even outside of finance, so just
politics and social trends. I'm usually, I'm

usually stuck at 30, 000 feet.
That's, that's where I like to hang out. Yeah,

that's, that's, that's my, my, my, my cruising
altitude of just trying to overview. And I

think a lot of that comes from the fact that.
The lower you get to the ground level, the

harder it is to figure things out. If you're
trying to figure out like the extreme details

of what other people are thinking about what
they're doing It's really difficult to do

but I think at the 30, 000 foot level you
can try to put the pieces together a little

bit Cleaner.
It's funny because when I look at the arc

of your career, I feel like you start off
Doing that of what's happening now, very news

oriented, and then psychology of money is,
like you're saying, the psychology of the

individual, and this is much more the psychology
of societies and how societies function, and

this is much more about stepping out, looking
at history, literally looking at a guide to

what never changes, whereas what you're doing
at The Motley Fool is much more a guide to

things that are changing.
Things that happen today. Right. That's really

what it was. Yeah. So it's definitely, and
even when I was at The Motley Fool, I started

moving. Thank you. away from that. There was
a period, a pretty distinct period in 2010.

So I'd been at The Molly Fool for like three
years at that point. And I told the editors,

my boss, who was a good friend of mine, I
was just like, I'm not, I'm not a stock picker.

I'm a, I'm a big picture guy. And that's what
I want to write about. That's all I'm going

to write about now. So it was 2010 when I
realized that 30, 000 feet was my, was my

cruising altitude and I needed to stay there.
And I'm glad I, I'm glad I figured it out

and put my foot down and just be like, this,
that's what I wanted to talk about.

But I think a lot of that too was like, I
always felt like, and I still feel like a

lot of the people who are picking individual
stocks and analyzing fine details about what's

going on in politics, like I just thought
a lot of it was BS. And the track record was

not great. So it wasn't that my track record
at figuring out the high level was necessarily

better, but I was just like, this isn't, at
least for me, that's not interesting.

And it's not interesting because I don't think
anyone has that much ability to do it well.

And so that's why I wanted to get a much broader
sense of what was going on. In your acknowledgments

of Same as Ever, you have a really nice line
where you say that writing is a social profession.

What do you mean by that?
Just trying to observe your fellow humans

and trying to figure out what, what's going
on. I think that's what, it's just the, the

analysis and the survey of just what the hell
is going on out there. How do these people

think? I always think it's interesting that
we only know about other people, what they've

said and written down, which is maybe one
percent.

If, if it's a fraction of one percent of what's
actually going through their heads. And so

however complex and messy you think the world
is. It's a thousand times more messy if you

give you if you it could actually go into
eight billion people's heads And see how they're

justifying decisions what they're thinking
and look the one the the point zero zero one

percent that they have verbalized And written
down is crazy enough.

It's completely bonkers, but the spectrum
of what people think Is a thousand times wider

than what, than the craziness that's actually
out there. So I think that's, that's an interesting

thing of like just trying to figure out the,
how big the spectrum of crazy thoughts there

is that goes through people's heads.
I think that's, that is true for me. You know,

the, what I write about and verbalize is like,
The center of my thoughts and there's some

crazy stuff over here and some crazy stuff
over here, but I'm only showing you this Center

part. So I think attuning yourself to the
other Parts of how people make decisions and

what they're thinking about is what's enjoyable
to me We danced around editing earlier, but

we didn't really get into it.
How does that process happen for you sitting

at the computer? Yeah Yeah, you just read
it over and over and over. No, I see, I almost

do the opposite. I don't know if this is the
right thing to do. I don't know if this is,

this is probably not good advice. But, pretty
much when I get to the bottom of the article,

I just hit publish.
And I don't go back and read the whole thing

again. But what I do do, is every sentence
that I type, After I type it, I'm like, all

right, is that good? Let me read it again.
Is that good? Can I change this word? Oh,

I might use, this is a better word here. So
it's like very, it's just like editing as

I go.
Whereas I think, I think a lot of people will

just like, let's just smash out a bunch of
words, and then we'll go back and edit each

line. Where I'm like, no, let's just do every
line as carefully as we can. So by the time

you get to the bottom, you're like, yep, okay,
it's good. We're done here. Wow. I've never

met somebody who writes that good.
I don't know if it's good. I don't know if

it's, it's probably terrible advice. It's
clearly working for you, so. I think here's

why I think a lot of it too, is that. You
will never get to a point where you're like,

great, doesn't need to be edited anymore,
this is perfect, hit publish. You will always

be able to do another pass.
So because you can never be done, you might

as well just come to a spot where you're like,
alright, good enough. I learned this a lot

when I was, I was a columnist at the Wall
Street Journal for a couple years. That's

right. And during that period, for a big publication
like that, six or seven editors would go through

the piece that you wrote.
Wow. So I would write it. And then I would

write it again and I would be like, in my
mind this is perfect. And I'd give it to another

editor and they would be like, shh, shh. Okay,
and they would mark it up and then in their

mind it would be perfect. And then they handed
it to another editor, and that editor would

mark it up, and then in their mind it'd be
perfect.

So everyone who took a... Stab at this when
they were done with their work, said, all

right, this is perfect. And then the next
person would say, Nope, I'm gonna change 80%

of this. So you're never get, there's, there's
no objective. This is not math where there's

an objectively right answer. It's all just
like, whatever you think is perfect, somebody

else will be able to slash to pieces.
So, you got to get to a point where at the

bottom you're like, yep, that's, I think it's
good enough and I'm not going to drive myself

crazy. Because you, you can. The hardest thing
about writing a book relative to a blog is

that blogs can be changed after the fact.
Right. And there's plenty of times when after

I publish a blog, someone will tell me, oh,
I got this wrong.

There's a typo here. I misquoted this person.
You go and fix it. There's a book. Once you,

once it goes to the printer, forever hold
your peace. That's very, you're, you're done

here. And so, that's, you really got to get
to a point, like, you'll drive yourself crazy,

particularly in the last few weeks before
it goes to the printer.

And there's so many times, this for me, for
Sam as ever, this was about two months ago,

of laying in bed and being like, oh, that
paragraph in chapter eight. Do I need, is

that, is that right? I don't think that's
right. I need to go change. But you gotta

get to a point where you're just like, it's
done. I've done my best, and I gotta let it

go.
And I think I, for my writing, I try to let

it go sooner than other people, for better
or worse. There's a lot in my blogs in particular,

'cause I don't have an editor too, it's just,
I'm a one man band here. Right. Almost every

blog that I publish will have a typo in it
or, or several typos because I'm not going

through with a fine tooth comb.
I kind of just get to the end and I say, all

right, I've, I've done my best here. Let's
send it off to the wild. I'll tell you why.

That would never work for me. And it is really
revealing, thinking through why, of how my

brain works and how ideas flow for me. For
me, an epiphany, the seed of an idea, is an

extremely emotional experience.
It is a, from my body, it is like this roar

of like lion like energy that comes into my
brain and I just need to Get it out. And I

speak it out and I just have to like, it's
like a dramatic experience. It's sort of like,

if you're in a big fight with a significant
other, you say all these sorts of things that

you don't mean to say, but like there's a
kernel of truth in there that is like really

true.
And whatever that thing is. That would not

have come out in like a sober state. Yes.
And so I feel like my first draft comes from

there. And so if I were to get to a place
where I get to the bottom and then I publish

it, it would be so far off. And so I need
to... You'd be cancelled the next day. Totally.

Or just, I'd be cancelled or I'd just say
something ridiculous.

And so then I need to get to a place where
I'm in a sober state and I just need to look

it over. Because my first draft has... No
logic in it. It is just raw, unfiltered, animalistic,

and I just need to step away and be in a sober
place because otherwise, yeah, I'll be canceled

and that'll be the end of that.
So I feel like in terms of being the opposite

of that, I feel like I truly write. One sentence
at a time in terms of I'll write a sentence

and I'll stare at it and then I'll be like
okay and then I get up and like go do the

dishes. Whereas I think a lot of writers truly
just like smash it all out in one go, whereas

mine is just one sentence, go do something
else, another sentence, go do something else.

Well, credit to you, your life really allows
you to do that. You know, you have, what's

this line, there's a The secret to doing great
work is to always be a little bit underemployed.

ICU is very underemployed. You sort of just
do one thing, you got a bunch of free time,

and so you can do that. And I'm now beginning
to see how your schedule and the structure

of your life is integrated with your And so
I've worked from home my entire career since

2007 before it was fashionable to do.
And I feel like that was so important because

the secret to good writing is doing things
that don't look like writing. It's just kind

of like sitting on the couch and thinking
about a topic. Going for a walk and thinking

about a topic. Doesn't look like writing.
So if you're in an office, your boss won't

let you do that.
Right. When you're in an office, your boss

wants you sitting at your desk, hitting keys.
That's what work looks like. I feel like it

took me a long time to convince my wife that
when I'm sitting on the couch in my sweatpants...

Staring out the window. I'm working, working
real hard right now because it doesn't look

like work.
But that's, that's where all the good ideas

come from. And the thing that does look like
work, like actually typing is like the smallest

part of the job. It's the, it's 2 percent
of what's actually taking place in that. So

yeah, I couldn't imagine, you know, and bless
them. There's so many good ones who do this,

but the people who are like.
Formal journalists working in an office, working

for Reuters or Bloomberg or the New York Times,
like that's a very hard thing to do because

I think you are required just by the culture
of the office to be hitting keys or talking

on the phone at all time. And you can't necessarily
sit on a couch and just kind of daydream about

the topic that you're writing about.
Yeah, good ideas can't be scheduled. Can't

be scheduled. A lot of people disagree with
that. I know Ryan Holiday, great writer who

I look up to, I think he's great. Uh, at least
a partial, if not a full rejoinder to that,

in which he would say, no, like you can create
an environment that will foster creativity

for me.
At least it's never the case. And if I were

to be like, okay, at 10 30 on Monday, I have
a calendar thing in my calendar that says

time to be creative. Like, forget about it.
It's always, most of my ideas will come on

the weekends when I'm not even ready. Pretending
to work. I'll be going for a walk with my

kids.
I'll be pushing them on the swings and I'll

be like, Oh, I got it. Like, that's the idea.
Or if it's not on the weekends, it's like,

like I said, it's on the treadmill. It's in
the shower. It's driving to the grocery store.

There's so many times I'll be in the middle
of a conversation with my wife about something

else.
It's not about work. I'll be in and I, and

I'll stop her and I say, I'm sorry, I have
an idea I need to write down. And it's just

like in the talking about where we're gonna
go on vacation next summer, I'll just get

this idea about like, oh, laws of getting
rich. Whatever it is. It just kind of comes

to you in these random periods.
And every time I've tried to force it, the

ideas suck. They're always terrible. You know,
one of the weirdest things for me about writing

and trying to cultivate a process. I need
to sleep a lot. So I did a writer's retreat

this summer and I was alone for four or five
days and I was just cranking through ideas

and what I would do is I would wake up at
like 6 30.

Get some coffee, have some breakfast, write,
nap, write more, nap, go for some walks. I

take like three naps in a day, go on like
two or three walks while I'm walking, sort

of speaking to my phone, and I love the voice
transcription now with Whisper, the GPT technology.

It's so good. And then I'll sit down for like.
An hour and a half to two and a half hours

at a time, just crank stuff out. But like
the cognitive intensity of that experience,

I just need to pass out. How often do you
feel like, you know, where you're going when

you're working on a writing project, do you
feel like usually you have the idea and you

just sort of go with it?
We talked about, sometimes I reject it, or

do you feel like sometimes you sort of follow
these trails and you end up in these. Places

that you never expected at the beginning.
I think it's always, every single time, the

latter. Really? And when I start an article,
I have no idea where it's going to go. And

a lot of times the reason I start it is because
I'm like, I want to learn about this topic.

So I think this is, I think that's actually
pretty common. And a lot of people will think

like, oh, this author wrote this book. And
they imagine that the author had all of that

information in their head. And then they just
like regurgitated it on, onto the paper. Right.

The process of writing is what teaches you.
And so all of, every one of these articles,

when I start writing it, usually it starts
with, it often starts with this, a title,

a headline. I remember, I specifically remember
having lunch with Patrick O'Shaughnessy in

2017. And he said, what are you working on?
And I said, I want to write a blog post called

the psychology of money.
And he kind of said, what's it about? I'm

like, I don't, I don't know, but that'd be
a cool, that'd be a cool title, right? Like

it's a catchy title. I think it'd be good.
And so I had the, the title in my head, but

I had no clue what was like, what am I going
to fill it out with? Like, I don't know. I'll

figure that out later, but that's, that's
always how it works.

And. And literally every single piece, when
you start writing it, you have no idea where

it's going to go. And sometimes, where it
ends up is like, sometimes the opposite of

what you thought. Because you start learning
about these topics and you're like, oh, my

thesis was this, but as I learned more, it
turns out it's actually the opposite.

But the opposite's pretty cool, so let's write
about that. So I think it's always, um, it's

just a learning process for me. And that gets
back to selfish writing, too. Like, I'm just

trying to figure out the world for myself.
And if I can tell a story that I like, written

in a style that I like, I take a leap of faith
that other people might be interested in it,

too.
Mm hmm. What's interesting about you is, you

love sentences. You love sentences. I think
you remember sentences. I think you say, I

write in sentences. Yeah. It seems like that
is your... Your thing that you're just so

focused on is like, what is a great sentence?
Reading that, writing that, and it seems like

that is like the atomic unit that you're orbiting
around.

I think, even in books that you love and have
a profound impact on you. If someone said,

Oh, tell me about that book. You probably
remember from the 70, 000 word book, you probably

remember three or four sentences that you
can actually recite from heart. And those

are the books that like meant something to
you.

And I, I, for a long time, I gave you credit
for this, but you tell me you didn't come

up with this phrase. I didn't come up with
this. People don't remember books. You can

still give me credit for it. I, I, I'm just
going to keep doing it. I think what happened

is that you did tell me it, but maybe you
were quoting somebody else.

Okay. People don't remember books, they remember
sentences. When you told me that, and I remember

you did tell me that, I was like, that's it.
That's, that's what it is. You remember sentences.

So if you think of your writing, whether it's
a blog or a book, as just a collection of

good sentences. Hey, that's like, that's kind
of obvious.

Like, of course, that's what every book is,
a collection of sentences. But when you think

about that, it really pushes you towards,
like, what I just wrote. Is that a good sentence?

If it's not, let's get it out. Let's get another
one in there. And you always just want to

make, I mean, this is another like obvious
statement, but it's a, it's, it's, it's had

a big impact on me.
I've just, that sentence that I just wrote,

would somebody highlight that in Kindle? Is
that a sentence worth highlighting? If not,

like, let's move on. Like, let's try to get
the highest density of highlightable, memorable

sentences in there. And if you can improve
that in density, even if you improve it by

10%, like, you're gonna zoom up the ladder
of the quality of the writing.

You know what the number one highlighted book
is in Kindle history? 4 Hour Body. Is that

right? Number one. And I think that's, I think
Tim is a great example of, uh, very quotable.

Very quotable. If Munger, if Charlie Munger
wrote a book, You would highlight the whole

thing. Because he is just a machine of one
liners.

Yep. And if you, once you tie those one liners
together, you get beautiful writing. Mm hmm.

Yeah. See, I love phrases. Never ending now.
It's kind of the same thing though. Yeah,

well, I would say Close. I think that I like
the thing that you get in a phrase more than

a sentence is it's it's less complete But
I think it's a little bit more catchy and

there's more alliteration and like playing
with the words and I think that that I think

it can be, yeah, it's slightly different,
and I'm trying to figure out what that speaks

to, that I like one liners so much.
I don't know what it is, but maybe it's that

I can get away with it not really making sense,
but being memorable. Like, there's something

very artistic about it. I think it's, I think
it's, I think a lot of people like that. I

heard this recently, I forget where I heard
it, but... Larry King, I didn't know this,

but back in the 80s had a column, a newspaper
column.

He, apparently back in the 80s, he did everything.
He was like TV host and journalist. And because

he was so busy doing all the other things
he was doing, his weekly column was just a

collection of random sentences. So the example
was like, he'd be like, and it was just someone

recalling us. I'm sure this isn't like verbatim
what he wrote, but he'd be like, I really

love Princess Diana's new hair.
And the next sentence would be like, I can't

believe Ronald Reagan did this. It was just
a random collection of sentences of just random

observations. And, but people love that. People
love a collection of good sentences. And the

idea that, of course, if you can tie all that
together in a long form narrative, that's

great too.
But a collection of great sentences is. I

love it. One of my favorite Nassim Taleb books
is his least well known, it's called The Bed

of Procrustance. So good. So good. It's a
collection of aphorisms. And people love that.

Meditations by Marcus Aurelius. It's a collection
of aphorisms. People love short and snappy

to the point.
And it's almost like, it's a form of poetry,

and in poetry, like, you cannot reduce it
to what it's been. If you can get an idea

reduced to one great sentence, that's, that's
a form of best story wins. Hey man, there's

another book called Everything by Aaron Haspel,
and it's just like Beto Prokosty's. It is

so fun to read.
I love flippin open books of aphorisms. You

read it for like three, four minutes at a
time. Kevin Kelly's recent book. Yes! It's

just a book of quotes, and it's lovely. It's
so good. The main thing is to keep the main

thing the main thing. I say that all the time
now. Don't be the best, be the only. Yeah.

Other people have explained that in ten thousand
words.

And he's, he does it in, you know, eight or
whatever it is. And that's like, that's, that's

the, that's what's really good. He has another
one like, enthusiasm is worth 40 IQ points.

Yeah. He has another one. I'm sure he's making
this up, but he says, if you don't smoke before

age 25, you will never start. And if you start
smoking before age 25, you will never quit.

Like, I don't know if that's statistically
true, but just as a sentence, you're like,

Oh, there's actually a lot of meaning in that
of just like the accumulation, compounding

effect of habits. So he's, but that's another
example of, and I know when you turn something

like that into a publisher. Most publishers
will say, can't do it.

You need to tell a story that's got to be
connecting. These are all random points. How

do they tie together? And my thought is always
like, no, they don't. I got a lot of that

feedback from Psychology of Money. Every single
publisher in America turned it down. Every

pub, and we sent it to every publisher.
Every single one of them rejected it. And

the main reason why, there are lots of reasons
why, but the main one was, it's just a random

collection of essays about money. There's
no connecting theme. And my response was like,

yeah, that's what's good about it. It's just
like, rather than rambling on one topic, I

would just want, like, I got these stories
and I think they're good.

And I know that Chapter 7 doesn't relate to
Chapter 12 in the slightest. They're not connected

at all. But I think they're both good. But
the publisher said, no, every chapter has

to be about a connecting theme. And I thought
that was bonkers. I think it's the opposite.

I think books like Kevin Kelly's, or Nassim
Taleb's, or to some extent, Psychology of

Money.
Cover a wide range of things, but if it's

good writing, people will like it. Yeah, I
mean, the major lesson of doing this podcast

so far has just been everything works, but
you need to just be really, really, really,

really, really good at whatever it is that
you do. I like that. Yeah. And in some ways

that's obvious, but it's, it's easy to overlook.
But people are always like, hey, how should

I do it? You can do whatever you want. Yeah.
But you gotta be really good. You gotta be

really good at it. You gotta be really good
at it. Yeah, no, that, that's actually really

good advice. Because there's a million ways
to write. It's an art. It's not a science.

Yeah.
And like in every form of art, there's infinite

number of ways to do it. As long as you're
good at it. What have you taken from Bill

Bryson? He, uh, in a similar way. to Ken Burns,
writes about topics in which he is not discovering

any new information. He's writing about topics
that have been written about by a million

people before him who are more qualified and
understood the topic better than him.

But he will, he's a better writer than everyone
else. So his most recent book is called The

Body. It's an anatomy textbook where he starts
with the hair and he moves down to the toes

and he talks about how the human body works.
And he goes into grand detail about How your

gallbladder works and how your quadriceps
interact with different tendons and whatnot.

But he tells it in such a captivating storytelling
fashion that it was like one of the books

of the year when it came out. And that's when
you can take a topic that seems so dull and

boring and that it's literally a textbook
of a topic and be like, Oh, I'm going to tell

a good story about this. That's what he's
so good about.

You know, what's really funny about this?
How many writers don't write because they

think Everything that I would want to say
on this topic has already been said before.

So much of good writing is not what you say,
it's how you say it. And the proof of this

comes from your high school English class,
or your high school science class, whatever

it is.
Our favorite teachers, they weren't there

coming up with new information. Yeah. No,
they just had a way of communicating it that

brought it to life and they made it fun or
they made it engaging or they created a moment

of suspense and tension as you were sitting
there and you went from being bored to being

mesmerized and that teacher really fired you
up but there's something about we start sitting

down to write we're like Oh, I need to make
sure that none of these ideas have ever been

shared before and people just drop themselves
out of the race before it begins.

I would say it more forcefully and say, there
is nothing new to write about. Hmm. And everything

has been written unless you're talking about
the news of today, but even that, it's like

these, there's, there's nothing new. Everything
that needs to be said has been said before.

It's not to say that we haven't discovered
every form of science or like there's no more

innovation, but there's almost no new topics
to write about.

Right. You're just writing about it in a slightly
different way than everyone who came before

you. But there's a tremendous amount of Value
in that and and potential in that if you can

tell a good story about something that is
up until that point been left to The textbooks

the boring numbers and data that don't catch
people's attention.

There's infinite opportunity in that you know
the other lesson from Bill Bryson is the way

that you can expand and contract ideas In
this just magnificent way, right? He has what

a short history of nearly everything. Yes.
We're just talking about the history of the

universe. Literally the history of the universe
too.

1927. There's, there's, yes. I mean, he writes
about everything because his skill is writing.

His skill is not astrophysics. His skill is
not 19, 1920s history. His skill is writing.

And he could write about anything. He could
write about the history of a fireplace and

it'd be a great book because he can just tell
a story.

So that's, I think when that's your skill,
the opportunity for him is. Infinite. It's

endless. Do you have a good way of thinking
about conclusions? I think the most important

part of any article is probably the first
and the last sentence. The last sentence.

Because the first sentence hooks you in, the
last sentence is how you, how you, the last

feeling you're going to have with it.
So I try to, I try to think about that quite

a bit, uh, in there. Uh, the very last sentence
in Psychology of Money is the title of the

first chapter. So the title of the first chapter
is No One's Crazy, and the last sentence of

Psychology of Money is No One's Crazy. So
that was intentional. I don't know if anyone

noticed that or if it had any impact, but
that was, I think you should always put an

excessive amount of thought, an abnormal amount
of thought into the first and last lines.

Do you have any way of thinking about it,
or is it just like a very intuitive sense?

Like, there's something there, right? Closing
the circle where it began. I'm going to open

it somewhere, I'm going to close it somewhere,
and it's... It's going to be this circular...

The worst that you could do, the absolute
worst writing, is that your last sentence

is, in summary, comma, like that's, that's,
that's when you know you've, you've, you've

lost it.
It should be some sort of emotional like,

boom, just leaves right there. And it hits
you at the end of like, that's, that's what

it is. Robert Caro writes to the last sentence.
So he knows what the last sentence is. And

the entire book just leads, and leads, yeah.
He's, he's his own beast. He's a, he's an

amazing writer.
And in such a different way from you, like,

he's an obsessive researcher. Like, he's just
flipping through files, turning every page

he always has. My favorite Robert Caro story
is when he was working on the research for

one of his Lyndon Johnson books. I don't know
how many he's written, but he's interviewing

Lyndon Johnson's old chauffeur.
And Robert Caro says, hey, when Lyndon Johnson

was in the back of the car, what was he doing?
And the chauffeur says, I don't know, I wasn't

paying any attention. A week later, Robert
Carroll says, hey, I gotta ask you again.

When Lyndon was in the back of the car, what
did he do? The chauffeur says, I told you,

I don't, I was never paying attention.
I was driving. I don't know what Lyndon was

doing. Carroll asked him like five more times
at different interviews, what was he doing

in the back seat? Finally, the chauffeur says,
okay, you know what? He would always talk

to himself. Lyndon Johnson, whenever he's
in the back seat, he would talk to himself

about how the day went.
And he'd literally say to himself, ah, Lyndon,

at that event today, I said the wrong thing.
And I make sure you don't. And Robert Crowe

was like, that's the most fascinating. But
he says he had to ask this person five or

six times before he finally got to it. And
most interviewers after the first answer,

they'd be like, all right, well, there's nothing
there.

Move on. But when he had an intuition that
there was something to dig on, he would just

keep chipping away at it until he finally
got to what he was looking for. I like this

line that you have in, uh, Same as Ever right
at the beginning. It's none of the chapters

are long and you're welcome for that. Yeah,
that's how I feel as a reader.

I'm kind of saying that back to like selfish
writing. I'm saying that to myself. I don't

like long chapters. People like getting to
the end of a chapter because it feels like

they're making progress. They're kind of,
it's like in the video game. You're like,

oh, I beat the next level. The person who
does this the best and who is just like shameless

about, uh, short chapters is Eric Larson.
Who's written many, many books. His most recent

famous one is um, Splendid in the Vial. Splendid
in the Vial about the London Blitz bombing.

And some of his chapters are, are a paragraph.
You know, in his average book he'll only have

like 150 chapters. Oh wow. But some of them,
most of them are a page or two.

And it's just, it's almost impossible to put
the book down because you're making so much

progress. And the opposite of that for a lot
of readers. You get to a chapter and you're

like, oh, let me see how, oh, this chapter
is 40 pages. A lot of people would just be

like, ah, you just feel like you have this
giant burden in front of you to try to plow

through.
So if you can keep people going, keep them

feeling on track, and keep them feeling like
they're, they're winning the next chapter,

that's really important. And I think at the
micro level of like how long your paragraph

is, it's kind of daunting when you see a page
and it's just a giant uninterrupted block

of text.
Whereas if you can really make it just like,

just break up your sentences. It's fine to
have if every paragraph is two sentences,

but you just keep people going. It's a much
easier way to read and it's less daunting.

And because it's less daunting, you're more
likely to keep the person on the page rather

than being like, I don't have time for this.
I got to go do something else. Two nights

ago, I picked up a 19th century commentary
and I looked at it and it was a big book and

the way the pages were laid out was it had
the whole paragraph going all the way down

and then on the same page the whole paragraph
going all the way down and across two pages

so up and down four, the four times was all
one paragraph.

It is so intimidating. It was. I was just
like. But also like for reader comprehension.

The reader's not gonna, like the amount that
they're gonna absorb from that is so much

less than if you broke that up. So a lot of
writers don't think about that. Just like

what does the paragraph look like and how
do the sentences break up?

The other thing is that if you have a standalone
sentence as a paragraph It sticks out more

and you're like that's an important line.
Yeah, like the paragraph that preceded it

I'm building up to this grand point that you
need to pay attention to right before I move

on to the next I think a lot of writers underestimate
how the way that your paragraphs are broken

up is actually a signal to your reader So
if you have paragraph Break paragraph break

like sentence sentence sentence sentence and
all these super short paragraphs.

You're actually Screaming to your reader.
I want you to skim this. I don't want you

to take this seriously. Yes, and If you just
have these long choppy blocks It's just going

to be too much, like overwhelming. And so
there's actually like, It's important to,

to balance it out. There's a way to think
about this.

And as you structure your paragraphs, you're
just telling your reader, This is how I want

you to read my work. Yeah. And I don't think
a lot of writers think about that. I think,

I think a varying length of your sentences
too. Of course. Some sentences will be three

words. Others it's fine if they're 20 or 25
words.

If every one of your sentences is 10 words,
it's very robotic and monotonous. You gotta,

you gotta splice it up a bit. Bill Bryson
is really good at this, of having a really

long, almost rambling sentence, followed by
a three word sentence. And that just, it makes

it kind of like a musical form of writing,
of when there's like, there's a beat to it,

that's really, that's really fun to read.
I'm working on a, uh, It's a fairly serious,

heavy piece, and I have an 123 word sentence
that I think is frickin hilarious, just to

like break it up. And part of it is just like,
I want to have fun as the writer, but I was

like, how long can I make this sentence? And
it was just sort of going, going, going, it's

all over the place.
And what's fun is, you sort of build up these

short sentences before it, and then you can
just let it go. And when you have a long sentence

like that, I even wrote it so that it would
have, be paced so it goes boom, boom, boom,

boom, boom, boom, boom. And I feel like as
I've written more and more, I've given myself

more and more liberty to just do something
because I'm, because it's going to make me

laugh.
One thing that, like a sentence that sticks

out, actually people remember sentences, I
forget what book this is, so I'm not going

to give it accurate credit here, but it was
a book about D Day during World War II. And

the two sentence that I remember, it was All
of the young men, it's talking about U. S.

soldiers going into D Day, all of the young
men knew that they might die in battle. And

the next sentence was, Most of them died in
battle. And it was, I remember that just like,

so that just like, four words or whatever,
it's just like, you can create so much emotion

with a super short sentence. It doesn't need
to be a long, rambling explanation.

Just four or five words, you can really stop
the reader in their tracks. You ever heard

this Gary Provost thing on sentences? No.
Alright, this is gonna be a little long, but

I think it's, it's fun doing. So, my favorite
part of every Rite of Passage cohort is performing

this, like I'm about to do. So, here we go.
Okay. This sentence has five words. Here are

five more words. Five word sentences are fine,
but several together become monotonous. Listen

to what is happening. The writing is getting
boring. The sound of it drones. It is like

a stuck record. The ear demands some variety.
Now listen. I vary the sentence length and

I create music.
Music. The writing sings. It has a pleasant

rhythm, a lilt, a harmony. I use short sentences,
and I use sentences of medium length. And

sometimes, when I'm certain the reader is
rested, I will engage him with a sentence

of considerable length. A sentence that burns
with energy and builds with all the impetus

of a crescendo.
The roll of the drums, the crash of the cymbals,

sounds that say, Listen to this. It's so good.
It is important. So write with a combination

of short, medium, and long sentences. Create
a sound that pleases the reader's ear. Don't

just write words. Oh, that's brilliant. I
love it. Write music. That's so good! So good.

And I don't know what to call that, but I
love it when people show what they're trying

to say as they're making the point in the
same, the same thrust. Yeah, that's good.

But the other thing that sticks out for me
is like what percentage of writers think that

deeply about their work. Most of them are
just like, throw on some words together as

much as they can.
But how many think about the art of it? Back

to Ken Burns, like nobody thinks about the
music lining up with it. He's just the only

one who puts in that much effort. How many
writers think about varying the length of

their sentences? Like if you could just, there's
actually a tremendous amount of opportunity

by just putting in a little bit more effort
than other people.

Totally. That varier sentence length is the
number one piece of writing advice that I

think about. If there's one thing that I think
about is just vary the thing that I'm doing.

So the sentence length, the word length, the
paragraph length, and it's so simple and intuitive,

but somehow it just sort of.
Mine would be brevity. Just getting to the

point. What's your point? Tell me that point
and move on. Get me back to my day. I don't

have time for your bullshit. That would be
mine. Yeah, exactly. No patience. No patience.

You ever heard the Kanye line on Rick Rubin?
He's not a producer, he's a reducer. That's

good.
That's really good. It's fun, right? I forget

who says the advice of like improve your writing
by deleting every word. By deleting every

other word. You've heard the The Ken Burns
Maple Syrup story. Yeah. So Ken Burns, I think,

lives in New Hampshire or Vermont. Yeah. And
he said that it takes 40 gallons of sap to

make one gallon of maple syrup.
And that's the same as for a video. That's

the same as video and same as writing and
same as any communication, right? Like, this

is like your scrap heap document. You know,
so much of good writing is just writing a

lot, not having the pride to keep everything
and saying, And you know what? I'm going to

go kill those darlings and I'm just going
to be left with.

The stuff that's good hard to do hard to kill
your your darlings There was a there was another

chapter in same as ever that the publisher
said and they were very polite about it But

they said that chapter is not gonna work and
as soon as I said, I knew they were right

But I had spent a lot of time on it I had
spent a lot of time crafting every sentence

and it was hard to put it out of its misery
Maybe it'll be, it'll be resurrected in scrapped

bits someday and I'll use it for something
else, but it's, it's really hard, it's easy

to have sunk costs in writing and say, I've
spent a lot of time on this.

Yeah, but the reader doesn't care how much
time you spent on it. Reader doesn't care

how much angst it caused you. It's not good.
So get rid of it. They just don't care. I

mean, I've, something I think a lot about
the paradox of creativity is Creative work

is only done when the consumer feels like
it didn't take a lot of work.

Yeah. Which means that they'll never appreciate
how much work it took. The other thing I think

about is you never know what sentence took
the author an hour and which, which. Paragraph

just fell out of their head. Ain't that right?
They all look the same, but sometimes, and

it's not even the most profound, it's usually
not the most profound sentence, but there's

one sentence in there that took 80 percent
of the time to make, to make that point.

It's always, it's always like that. But as
a reader, you have no idea which one it was.

Totally. I love this line where you talk about
Seinfeld. You have this graphic where you

talk about different TV shows and the graphic
shows how TV shows when they end earlier,

they tend to, the average season tends to
be rated much higher.

Once you stick around a long time. Like The
Simpsons just goes and it's not rated well.

The best show of the 1990s. It's still on
air. Most people don't even know they're still

making it. And the ratings for the recent,
you know, decade are in the toilet. So that

I always look at that and it's like you should
have quit while you're ahead like Seinfeld.

Seinfeld was on top of the world when they
ended in 1998 and he said no we're done we're

out of here. I know we're on top of the world
that's why we're quitting. And Jerry has this

quote where he says the only way to know where
the top is is to experience the decline. And

I have no interest in that. So when things,
when he was going parabolic, he said, that's

the time to quit and quit while you're ahead.
I've always really admired that in athletes

and business people, people who just remove
themselves from the system. I didn't realize

this until recently, but Cameron Diaz did
that. She doesn't act anymore. Not because

she can't. Of course she can. She just said,
I've had enough. I've achieved everything

I wanted to.
I'm sure there's more to it. Maybe the downsides

of acting, whatever it would be. But it's
so rare that people quit on their own terms.

But I think it's fundamental to your happiness
because there's almost nothing else that's

going to make you unhappier than being forced
out. Having your show canceled or the equivalent

of that in your own career.
Yeah. It's gotta be really hard. So I've always

really admired people who quit while they're
ahead and I hope I can do it someday. I feel

like one thing that you are particularly good
at is just having a keen sense for whose feedback

you're going to listen to and who's you're
going to ignore and reject.

And I feel like you've just been very good
about saying, yeah, that person doesn't think

this is right, but I disagree with them. You
know what? I got my own style and I've really

watched you orbit into your own style and
lean into it more and more since we've gotten

to know each other. I think, I think to some
extent though, I incorporate all the feedback.

I'm a firm believer that you cannot take the
praise seriously if you ignore the criticism.

And so unless you are rejecting. You have
to accept at least some of the criticism and

that's hard to do and it's it's it's fun to
accept the praise But then if you reject if

every time you have a critic you say I don't
know your time I'm like, no you should pay

attention to some of it You have to learn
how to incorporate the phrase without it breaking

who you are though But also feedback is a
giant power law like I have ten people in

my life if they tell me something I listen.
They know. Yeah. They know, and their sense

of where I'm at sometimes is far better than
where I am. But then really just thinking

in concentric circles about this. Yeah. And
I think that as your style gets more and more

distinct, I think it's important to have a
group of people whose feedback you really

value, but know that, hey, the average person
might not like this, but that's the price

I'm willing to pay so that.
The people who I'm trying to serve love this.

Wasn't it Derek Thompson on, on this, on this
podcast who said, Find someone who cares about

you and wants you to succeed and is willing
to give you critical advice. I think he phrased

it differently, but I think that's really
true. Because the troll on Twitter doesn't

want you to succeed.
They don't care. But your best friend wants

you to succeed, but they're still willing
to tell you when you're wrong. And that's

the person who you want to listen to. Amen.
You have a chapter, Wounds heal, scars last.

What do you feel is a wound from your career
versus a scar? Oh gosh, great question. I

don't know if I've, if I've started, if I've
thought a lot.

I mean, most of the criticisms were wounds
because they healed. Particularly early on

in my writing career, my wife used to walk
in the door and she would just look at my

demeanor and she would say, bad comment today.
it would just eat away at me when there would

be feedback on my blog. Me too, man.
Because I felt like my career was, was one

criticism away from ending. It's how it felt
because it just felt like it was a fragile

career and I had thinner skin back then when
I first started. So those, those are all,

um, you know, wounds that healed. Scars that
lasted, I actually think starting my career

in 2008 when the economy was a mess and it
was really like, If you lose this job, there's

probably not another one for you.
That was actually really good in hindsight.

Caused a lot of stress and anxiety. A lot
of nearly sleepless nights. But in hindsight,

it was like, we really got to figure make
this thing work. This is not just a luxury.

Oh, let's see if this writing job pans out.
Like, no, I got to take this real seriously.

And I'm not going to think of this as just
like a temporary job of this like, oh, let's

play around as a writer.
Like I got to find out how to become a professional

writer and I got to do it right now. I mean,
one of the chapters in Same as Ever is about

when the magic happens and it's about the
biggest innovations in society take place

when the world is on fire during pandemics,
during wars. Shit gets real and the stakes

are really high.
That's when people figure problems out. And

I think starting your career in 2008 did that
for everybody. It was like, I got this job

and there's not many others out there, so
I gotta, I gotta figure out how to make this

work. That was, I think that's a, like being
scarred by that is actually really beneficial.

That is something that's striking about talking
to you is for how long you've been writing

and for how well you do it and how many books
you've sold. You talk about it like you've

been doing this for a few years and you're
still in double A baseball. I think if you,

if you don't, at the moment that you lose
that, you're done.

You're finished. I mean, I tell a story in
Psychology of Money about Mike Moritz who

runs Sequoia, the most successful VC firm
of all time. And they've been the best VC

firm for 40 years. And Charlie Rose asked
him, he said, what's the secret to your success?

And he said, we're always scared of going
out of business.

And he says, we don't ever assume that the
success we had yesterday is gonna transfer

to tomorrow. They wake up scared every day
and I think the moment you lose that it's,

it's done. You can count the days to the end
of your career. And so I, yeah, I feel like

I, part of it's just my personality. I'm a
worrier.

I'm a worst case scenario guy. It's not that
healthy of a personality, but I've always

been like that. So I think always realizing
that no matter what you've achieved in the

past, you can be toast tomorrow or the next,
the next book you write can be garbage. Always

remembering that kind of keeps you focused
on it.

Keeps you in gear. Yeah, do you feel like
there's a stability and a longevity to your

career writing books that you didn't have
writing articles? The funny thing is like,

um, One of the reasons why I didn't write
psychology money for 14 years is I didn't

see the point. I was like, I write online,
who cares if it's in between two pieces of

cardboard?
What difference does it make? And now I realize

that that's, that's not true. They're like
the, the format of a book makes it a distinctly

different thing than just a blog. And so,
um, you know, I hope there's longevity in

the style. I mean, just by the theme, same
as ever, it's like things that will always

be true.
I never understood writers who wanted to write

things that were constrained to a time period,
you know, writing about the best stocks to

buy this year. Well, by definition, nobody
cares about that article next year or writing

about, you know, a book about the top trends
of 1999. By 2001, no one's buying your book.

So I've always been like, if it's not timeless
and why, why do you even doing it? It's so

part of the reason is it's so hard to sell
books. People don't realize that the tail

distribution of how hard it is to get someone
to pay 30 for content that they're used to

getting for free is very, very difficult.
So if you're going to do it, give yourself

a fighting chance. At writing something that
people might buy next year and 10 years from

now and 50 years from now, like at least give
yourself the opportunity to get there. So

I always want to write, if I write something
that's not going to be relevant in 10 years,

I don't see the point in writing it at all.
So what moves the needle? In book sales? Yeah.

I always say 90 percent of virality is luck.
If there's anything that takes off a blog

post, a tweet, a book, a business, anything
that has just, you know, four standard deviation

success. The more outlier the success, the
more luck played a role. And it's not that

luck was all of it.
Of course in successful businesses or successful

tweets or books, there's some skill in there.
But there's a lot of things that have to go

right to have that extreme outlier success.
And I think the proof of that is that there

are a lot of good books, great books that
didn't sell that much. And that's, that's

what it is.
And there's a lot of books that sold a lot

that aren't that good. And so that's, I think,
and it's true for music. It's true for tweets.

It's, it's really unhealthy that if you experience
outsized success to say, I, I did all of that.

That's, I achieved four standard deviation
success because I'm four standard deviation

smarter than everyone else.
That's an utterly wrong mindset, uh, and a

very dangerous mindset. Well, we had a fun
texting thread a few months ago where I texted

you about, uh, author who had just spent a
bunch of money on marketing and you were just

like, doesn't work, doesn't mean anything.
Dude, who cares? It's like. You know what

my marketing strategy is?
Write a good book. Yeah, that's my marketing

strategy. Jason Zweig in the Wall Street Journal
is about a week before Psychology Money came

out and we were talking about marketing books
and he said, Morgan, if the book is good,

you don't need to market it. And if the book
is bad, no amount of marketing is going to

help.
And I think that's like 80 percent true. I

like that though. But it's definitely, it's
definitely 80 percent true. It's not 100 percent

true. I think there is marketing that works.
You need to give the book a push when it first

comes out. You got to go on the podcast. You
got to get, you got to make the world aware

of it.
But once they're aware of it, if it's good,

it's going to go. And if it's bad, it's going
to die. And you just got to accept that that's

what it is. Well, one way to think about it
is, how high is the pulpit that you're shouting

from? Yeah. So marketing, you're just shouting
from a higher pulpit. And so you can reach

more people.
But then the question is, do the people that

you reach turn around and share it with two
other people? Or do they keep it to themselves?

Yes. I mean, there's like nothing is good.
There's no marketing that's going to sell

books other than word of mouth. For any significant
period of time. Like you can, you can go on

a lot of podcasts and maybe get like a, an
excerpt in the New York Times or whatnot.

Nothing is going to move the needle more than
every person who buys your book. Text three

of their friends and say, you need to buy
this too. That's the only thing that, and

that's the only thing that gives it the long
tail. If you, if you go on a lot of podcasts

and you, you're on the Today Show or whatever,
you can sell a lot of books for a month.

But if you want to keep selling books for
years, it has to have word of mouth, same

for products, same for everything. The iPhone
sells, not because they have a good marketing,

it sells because it's a good product that
people want to use. And when they buy it for

the first time, they tell their siblings and
their parents and their friends, you should

go buy this too.
Nothing works more than that. Yeah, you know,

speaking of products, I feel like one of the
things that you do really well is you Think

through what is the user experience of reading
my work and low friction. I want to make it

fun I want it to be brief and you know, there's
other writers who would say to hell with it

You know, this is it's art let it pour out
of your soul and stuff like that And I think

that you really appreciate a good UX as a
reader.

So you try to deliver a good UX as a writer
I'm just trying to have empathy for the reader

And having experience as yourself as a reader.
I know what I like to write and I want to,

I want to mimic that. I know what I don't
like to write and I want to stay away from

that. So I think it's just respect, empathy
for the reader that pushes you in that direction.

All right, Morgan, this was good fun. Thanks
so much for having me. Thanks for coming to

my living room.

